1. Arch Iran Med. 2022 Aug 1;25(8):574-576. doi: 10.34172/aim.2022.91.

Asymtomatic Mass In The Tail Of The Pancreas: Intrapancreatic Accessory Spleen 
(IPAS).

Yıldırım F(1), Erdogan F(2), Kilic M(3), Metin MR(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Ankara City Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Pathology, Ankara Yildirim Beyazit University, Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Ankara Yildirim Beyazit University, Ankara, 
Turkey.
(4)Department of Radiology, Medipol University, Pendik Hospital, Istanbul, 
Turkey.

We present a 48-year-old male patient with a mass in the tail of the pancreas on 
abdominal ultrasonography. The lesion was suspicious for a well-differentiated 
pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor and spleen preserved distal pancreatectomy 
surgery was performed. It was diagnosed as intrapancreatic accessory spleen 
(IPAS) after pathological examination. Accessory spleen is not an infrequent 
congenital entity caused by the localization of normal splenic tissue in ectopic 
regions. As it is known, an accessory spleen is a benign entity and does not 
require surgical treatment or follow-up when detected. However, it is important 
to recognize IPAS tissue as it may mimic a pancreatic neoplasia when it is 
located in the pancreas. In this article, we discuss the differential diagnostic 
possibilities of the IPAS entity.

© 2022 The Author(s). This is an open-access article distributed under the terms 
of the Creative Commons Attribution License 
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0), which permits unrestricted use, 
distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is 
properly cited.

DOI: 10.34172/aim.2022.91
PMID: 37543881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]