1. Pancreas. 2022 Oct 1;51(9):1083-1091. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002147.

Defining the Optimal Duration of Neoadjuvant Therapy for Pancreatic Ductal 
Adenocarcinoma: Time for a Personalized Approach?

Puleo A(1), Malla M(2), Boone BA.

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery.
(2)Section of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine.

Despite recent advances, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) continues to be 
associated with dismal outcomes, with a cure evading most patients. While 
historic treatment for PDAC has been surgical resection followed by 6 months of 
adjuvant therapy, there has been a recent shift toward neoadjuvant treatment 
(NAT). Several considerations support this approach, including the 
characteristic early systemic spread of PDAC, and the morbidity often 
surrounding pancreatic resection, which can delay recovery and preclude patients 
from starting adjuvant treatment. The addition of NAT has been suggested to 
improve margin-negative resection rates, decrease lymph node positivity, and 
potentially translate to improved survival. Conversely, complications and 
disease progression can occur during preoperative treatment, potentially 
eliminating the chance of curative resection. As NAT utilization has increased, 
treatment durations have been found to vary widely between institutions with an 
optimal duration remaining undefined. In this review, we assess the existing 
literature on NAT for PDAC, reviewing treatment durations reported across 
retrospective case series and prospective clinical trials to establish currently 
used approaches and seek the optimal duration. We also analyze markers of 
treatment response and review the potential for personalized approaches that may 
help clarify this important treatment question and move NAT toward a more 
standardized approach.

Copyright Â© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002147
PMCID: PMC10144367
PMID: 37078929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.