1. J Ginseng Res. 2023 Jul;47(4):534-542. doi: 10.1016/j.jgr.2022.12.005. Epub
2022  Dec 29.

Ginsenoside Rg1 Epigenetically Modulates Smad7 Expression in Liver Fibrosis via 
MicroRNA-152.

Zhang R(1), Li X(1), Gao Y(1), Tao Q(1), Lang Z(1), Zhan Y(1), Li C(1), Zheng 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment of Severe Hepato-Pancreatic 
Diseases of Zhejiang Province, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: Ginsenoside Rg1, a bioactive component of Ginseng, has demonstrated 
anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and hepatoprotective effects. It is known that 
the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays a key role in the activation 
of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Recently, Rg1 has been shown to reverse liver 
fibrosis by suppressing EMT, although the mechanism of Rg1-mediated 
anti-fibrosis effects is still largely unclear. Interestingly, Smad7, a negative 
regulator of the transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) pathway, is often 
methylated during liver fibrosis. Whether Smad7 methylation plays a vital role 
in the effects of Rg1 on liver fibrosis remains unclear.
METHODS: Anti-fibrosis effects were examined after Rg1 processing in vivo and 
in vitro. Smad7 expression, Smad7 methylation, and microRNA-152 (miR-152) levels 
were also analyzed.
RESULTS: Rg1 significantly reduced the liver fibrosis caused by carbon 
tetrachloride, and reduced collagen deposition was also observed. Rg1 also 
contributed to the suppression of collagenation and HSC reproduction in vitro. 
Rg1 caused EMT inactivation, reducing Desmin and increasing E-cadherin levels. 
Notably, the effect of Rg1 on HSC activation was mediated by the TGF-β pathway. 
Rg1 induced Smad7 expression and demethylation. The over-expression of DNA 
methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) blocked the Rg1-mediated inhibition of Smad7 
methylation, and miR-152 targeted DNMT1. Further experiments suggested that Rg1 
repressed Smad7 methylation via miR-152-mediated DNMT1 inhibition. MiR-152 
inhibition reversed the Rg1-induced promotion of Smad7 expression and 
demethylation. In addition, miR-152 silencing led to the inhibition of the 
Rg1-induced EMT inactivation.
CONCLUSION: Rg1 inhibits HSC activation by epigenetically modulating Smad7 
expression and at least by partly inhibiting EMT.

© 2022 The Korean Society of Ginseng. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgr.2022.12.005
PMCID: PMC10310870
PMID: 37397418

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.