1. Cancer Res Commun. 2022 Sep 2;2(9):914-928. doi:
10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-21-0095.  eCollection 2022 Sep.

The Wnt Pathway Inhibitor RXC004 Blocks Tumor Growth and Reverses Immune Evasion 
in Wnt Ligand-dependent Cancer Models.

Phillips C(1), Bhamra I(1), Eagle C(1), Flanagan E(1), Armer R(1), Jones CD(1), 
Bingham M(1)(2), Calcraft P(1)(3), Edmenson Cook A(1)(4), Thompson B(1)(5), 
Woodcock SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Redx Oncology Ltd, Redx Pharma PLC; Cheshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Concept Life Sciences Ltd, Manchester, United Kingdom.
(3)Analytical Development, Flu-BPD, AstraZeneca PLC, Manchester, United Kingdom.
(4)Oncology Cell Therapy, GlaxoSmithKline PLC, London, United Kingdom.
(5)In Vitro, RxCelerate Ltd, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Wnt signaling is implicated in the etiology of gastrointestinal tract cancers. 
Targeting Wnt signaling is challenging due to on-target toxicity concerns and 
lack of druggable pathway components. We describe the discovery and 
characterization of RXC004, a potent and selective inhibitor of the 
membrane-bound o-acyl transferase Porcupine, essential for Wnt ligand secretion. 
Absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion and safety pharmacology 
studies were conducted with RXC004 in vitro, and pharmacokinetic exposure 
assessed in vivo. RXC004 effects on proliferation and tumor metabolism were 
explored in genetically defined colorectal and pancreatic cancer models in vitro 
and in vivo. RXC004 effects on immune evasion were assessed in B16F10 immune 
"cold" and CT26 immune "hot" murine syngeneic models, and in human cell 
cocultures. RXC004 showed a promising pharmacokinetic profile, inhibited Wnt 
ligand palmitoylation, secretion, and pathway activation, and demonstrated 
potent antiproliferative effects in Wnt ligand-dependent (RNF43-mutant or 
RSPO3-fusion) colorectal and pancreatic cell lines. Reduced tumor growth and 
increased cancer cell differentiation were observed in SNU-1411 (RSPO3-fusion), 
AsPC1 and HPAF-II (both RNF43-mutant) xenograft models, with a therapeutic 
window versus Wnt homeostatic functions. Additional effects of RXC004 on tumor 
cell metabolism were confirmed in vitro and in vivo by glucose uptake and 
18fluorodeoxyglucose-PET, respectively. RXC004 stimulated host tumor immunity; 
reducing resident myeloid-derived suppressor cells within B16F10 tumors and 
synergizing with anti-programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) to increase 
CD8+/regulatory T cell ratios within CT26 tumors. Moreover, RXC004 reversed the 
immunosuppressive effects of HPAF-II cells cocultured with human peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells, confirming the multiple anticancer mechanisms of this 
compound, which has progressed into phase II clinical trials.
SIGNIFICANCE: Wnt pathway dysregulation drives many gastrointestinal cancers; 
however, there are no approved therapies that target the pathway. RXC004 has 
demonstrated the potential to block both tumor growth and tumor immune evasion 
in a genetically defined, clinically actionable subpopulation of Wnt 
ligand-dependent gastrointestinal cancers. The clinical utility of RXC004, and 
other Porcupine inhibitors, in such Wnt ligand-dependent cancers is currently 
being assessed in patient trials.

Â© 2022 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-21-0095
PMCID: PMC10010340
PMID: 36922934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C. Phillips reports personal fees from Redx 
Pharma outside the submitted work; in addition, C. Phillips has a patent to Redx 
Pharma pending and issued. I. Bhamra reports personal fees from Redx Pharma PLC 
during the conduct of the study; in addition, I. Bhamra has a patent to Redx 
Pharma PLC pending and issued. C. Eagle reports personal fees from Redx Pharma 
Plc during the conduct of the study; in addition, C. Eagle has a patent to Redx 
Pharma Plc pending and issued. E. Flanagan reports personal fees from Redx 
Pharma Plc during the conduct of the study; in addition, E. Flanagan has a 
patent to Redx Pharma Plc pending and issued. R. Armer reports personal fees 
from Redx Pharma Plc during the conduct of the study; in addition, R. Armer has 
a patent to Redx Pharma Plc pending and issued. C.D. Jones reports personal fees 
from Redx Pharma Plc during the conduct of the study; in addition, C.D. Jones 
has a patent to Redx Pharma Plc pending and issued. M. Bingham reports personal 
fees from Redx Pharma Plc during the conduct of the study; in addition, M. 
Bingham has a patent to Redx Pharma Plc pending and issued. P. Calcraft reports 
personal fees from Redx Pharma Plc during the conduct of the study; in addition, 
P. Calcraft has a patent to Redx Pharma Plc pending and issued; and P. Calcraft 
has been an employee of Astra Zeneca since Nov 2017. S.A. Woodcock reports 
personal fees from Redx Pharma Plc during the conduct of the study; in addition, 
S.A. Woodcock has a patent to Redx Pharma Plc pending and issued. No disclosures 
were reported by the other authors.