1. Pancreas. 2022 Oct 1;51(9):1074-1082. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002162.

Challenges in Recruitment and Retention: Leveraging Health-Related Antecedents 
and Information Carrier Factors to Improve Patient Participation in Pancreatic 
Cancer Research-A Review Article.

Coffin TB(1), Kenner BJ.

Author information:
(1)From the Kenner Family Research Fund, New York, NY.

Advancements in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) prevention, diagnosis, 
and treatment rely on representative and robust clinical trial participation. 
Given the severity of PDAC, along with the lack of effective early detection 
approaches, the need for accessible screening tools and new treatments is dire. 
Unfortunately, enrollment barriers often result in low participant accrual rates 
for PDAC studies and illustrate the challenging terrain researchers are facing. 
Research participation along with access to preventative care has been further 
impacted by the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic. In this review, we use the 
Comprehensive Model for Information Seeking to discuss underexplored factors 
that influence patient participation in clinical studies. Adequate staffing, 
flexible scheduling, effective patient and physician communication, and 
culturally responsive messaging, along with the use of telehealth, can support 
enrollment objectives. Clinical research studies are a key component of health 
care, informing medical advancements, and improving outcomes. By leveraging 
health-related antecedents and information carrier factors, researchers can more 
effectively address barriers to participation and implement potential 
evidence-based mitigating strategies. While this work focuses on the PDAC 
research context, the lessons delineated here are applicable to the wider cancer 
research setting.

Copyright Â© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002162
PMCID: PMC10144271
PMID: 37078928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.