1. F1000Res. 2022 Nov 1;10:1057. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.73161.2. eCollection
 2021.

Pancreatic cancer grading in pathological images using deep learning 
convolutional neural networks.

Mohamad Sehmi MN(1), Ahmad Fauzi MF(1), Wan Ahmad WSHM(1), Wan Ling Chan E(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Engineering, Multimedia University, Cyberjaya, Selangor, 63100, 
Malaysia.
(2)International Medical University, Kuala Lumpur, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Background: Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest forms of cancer. The 
cancer grades define how aggressively the cancer will spread and give indication 
for doctors to make proper prognosis and treatment. The current method of 
pancreatic cancer grading, by means of manual examination of the cancerous 
tissue following a biopsy, is time consuming and often results in misdiagnosis 
and thus incorrect treatment. This paper presents an automated grading system 
for pancreatic cancer from pathology images developed by comparing deep learning 
models on two different pathological stains. Methods: A transfer-learning 
technique was adopted by testing the method on 14 different ImageNet pre-trained 
models. The models were fine-tuned to be trained with our dataset. Results: From 
the experiment, DenseNet models appeared to be the best at classifying the 
validation set with up to 95.61% accuracy in grading pancreatic cancer despite 
the small sample set. Conclusions: To the best of our knowledge, this is the 
first work in grading pancreatic cancer based on pathology images. Previous 
works have either focused only on detection (benign or malignant), or on 
radiology images (computerized tomography [CT], magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] 
etc.). The proposed system can be very useful to pathologists in facilitating an 
automated or semi-automated cancer grading system, which can address the 
problems found in manual grading.

Copyright: Â© 2022 Mohamad Sehmi MN et al.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.73161.2
PMCID: PMC10521057
PMID: 37767358

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.