1. Front Oncol. 2023 Jan 30;12:1021058. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1021058.
eCollection  2022.

Dose evaluations of organs at risk and predictions of gastrointestinal toxicity 
after re-irradiation with stereotactic body radiation therapy for pancreatic 
cancer by deformable image registration.

Cao Y(1), Zhu X(1), Yu C(1), Jiang L(1), Sun Y(1), Guo X(1), Zhang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Changhai Hospital Affiliated to Naval 
Medical University, Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: Re-irradiation of locally recurrent pancreatic cancer may be an optimal 
choice as a local ablative therapy. However, dose constraints of organs at risk 
(OARs) predictive of severe toxicity remain unknown. Therefore, we aim to 
calculate and identify accumulated dose distributions of OARs correlating with 
severe adverse effects and determine possible dose constraints regarding 
re-irradiation.
METHODS: Patients receiving two courses of stereotactic body radiation therapy 
(SBRT) for the same irradiated regions (the primary tumors) due to local 
recurrence were included. All doses of the first and second plans were 
recalculated to an equivalent dose of 2 Gy per fraction (EQD2). Deformable image 
registration with the workflow "Dose Accumulation-Deformable" of the MIM® System 
(version: 6.6.8) was performed for dose summations. Dose-volume parameters 
predictive of grade 2 or more toxicities were identified, and the receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to determine optimal thresholds of 
dose constraints.
RESULTS: Forty patients were included in the analysis. Only the V 10 of the 
stomach [hazard ratio (HR): 1.02 (95% CI:1.00-1.04), P = 0.035] and D mean of 
the intestine [HR: 1.78 (95% CI: 1.00-3.18), P = 0.049] correlated with grade 2 
or more gastrointestinal toxicity. Hence, the equation of probability of such 
toxicity was P = 1/1 Additionally, the area under the ROC curve and threshold of 
dose constraints of V 10 of the stomach and D mean of the intestine were 0.779 
and 77.575 cc, 0.769 and 4.22 Gy3 (α/β = 3), respectively. The area under the 
ROC curve of the equation was 0.821.
CONCLUSION: The V 10 of the stomach and D mean of the intestine may be vital 
parameters to predict grade 2 or more gastrointestinal toxicity, of which the 
threshold of dose constraints may be beneficial for the practice of 
re-irradiation of locally relapsed pancreatic cancer.

Copyright © 2023 Cao, Zhu, Yu, Jiang, Sun, Guo and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1021058
PMCID: PMC9923872
PMID: 36793343

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.