1. Front Med (Lausanne). 2023 Feb 7;9:935676. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2022.935676. 
eCollection 2022.

Gastrointestinal disorders and intestinal bacteria: Advances in research and 
applications in therapy.

Ohkusa T(1), Nishikawa Y(1), Sato N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiota Research, Juntendo University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Intestinal bacteria coexist with humans and play a role in suppressing the 
invasion of pathogens, producing short-chain fatty acids, producing vitamins, 
and controlling the immune system. Studies have been carried out on culturable 
bacterial species using bacterial culture methods for many years. However, as 
metagenomic analysis of bacterial genes has been developed since the 1990s, it 
has recently revealed that many bacteria in the intestine cannot be cultured and 
that approximately 1,000 species and 40 trillion bacteria are present in the gut 
microbiota. Furthermore, the composition of the microbiota is different in each 
disease state compared with the healthy state, and dysbiosis has received much 
attention as a cause of various diseases. Regarding gastrointestinal diseases, 
dysbiosis has been reported to be involved in inflammatory bowel disease, 
irritable bowel syndrome, and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Recent findings 
have also suggested that dysbiosis is involved in colon cancer, liver cancer, 
pancreatic cancer, esophageal cancer, and so on. This review focuses on the 
relationship between the gut microbiota and gastrointestinal/hepatobiliary 
diseases and also discusses new therapies targeting the gut microbiota.

Copyright Â© 2023 Ohkusa, Nishikawa and Sato.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2022.935676
PMCID: PMC9941163
PMID: 36825261

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.