1. Adv Radiat Oncol. 2023 Jul 9;9(1):101312. doi: 10.1016/j.adro.2023.101312. 
eCollection 2024 Jan.

Safety and Efficacy of Neoadjuvant SABR in Pancreatic Cancer: Effect of Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging-Guided Respiratory-Gated Adaptive Radiation Therapy.

Song JY(1), Kim YT(2), Ryu JK(2), Lee SH(2), Paik WH(2), Cho IR(2), Kim H(3), 
Kwon W(3), Jang JY(3), Chie EK(1), Kang HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul 
National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Liver Research Institute, Seoul National 
University Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Surgery, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: We aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant SABR using 
magnetic resonance imaging-guided respiratory-gated adaptive radiation therapy 
(MRgRg-ART) in pancreatic cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We performed a single-institution retrospective review in 
patients with pancreatic cancer who underwent neoadjuvant SABR followed by 
surgical resection. After neoadjuvant chemotherapy, those considered resectable 
by the multidisciplinary team received SABR over 5 consecutive days using 
MRgRg-ART. Factors associated with severe postoperative complications 
(Clavien-Dindo grade ≥III) and prognostic factors for overall survival were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Sixty-two patients were included in the analysis, with a median 
follow-up of 10.3 months. The median prescribed dose to the planning target 
volume was 50 Gy. Fifty-two (85.3%) patients underwent R0 resection, and 11 
(18.0%) experienced severe postoperative complications. No factors were 
associated with the incidence of severe postoperative complications. There were 
3 cases of locoregional recurrence, resulting in a 12-month local control rate 
of 93.1%. Elevated postoperative carbohydrate antigen 19-9 was significantly 
associated with poor overall survival in the multivariate analysis (P = .037).
CONCLUSIONS: Neoadjuvant SABR with 50 Gy using MRgRg-ART delivered to pancreatic 
cancer resulted in a notable survival outcome with acceptable toxicities. 
Further studies are warranted to investigate the long-term effects of this 
method.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adro.2023.101312
PMCID: PMC10801658
PMID: 38260233

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.