1. Cancer Radiother. 2023 Dec;27(8):768-777. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2023.08.001. 
Epub 2023 Oct 26.

Practice-changing clinical trials in radiation oncology for gastrointestinal 
malignancies in 2021-2023.

Boustani J(1), Huguet F(2), Vendrely V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, centre hospitalier universitaire de 
Besançon, Besançon, France; Inserm, EFS BFC, UMR 1098, RIGHT, 
Greffon-hôte-tumeur interactions/Ingénierie cellulaire et génique, université de 
Franche-Comté, Besançon, France. Electronic address: jboustani@chu-besancon.fr.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, Sorbonne université, 
Paris, France.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, centre hospitalier universitaire de 
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France; BoRdeaux Institute of onCology (BRIC), UMR1312, 
Inserm, université de Bordeaux, 33000, Bordeaux, France.

Gastrointestinal cancers are one of the most frequent cancers and a leading 
cause of cancer deaths worldwide. We provide an overview of the most important 
practice-changing trials that were either published or presented at the 
international scientific meetings in 2021-2023. Highlights included reports on 
three phase III trials (CONCORDE/PRODIGE 26, ARTDECO, and a study by Xu et al.) 
that evaluated dose escalation in the definitive setting for locally advanced 
oesophageal cancers, as well as two phase III trials that evaluated the role of 
chemotherapy (neo-AEGIS) and targeted therapy (NRG/RTOG 1010) in the neoadjuvant 
setting for adenocarcinoma oesophageal cancers or gastroesophageal junction 
cancer. CheckMate 577 evaluated nivolumab in patients who had residual 
pathological disease after neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by complete 
resection. The use of radiation therapy for borderline and locally advanced 
pancreatic cancer is also discussed (SMART and CONKO-007 trials). Stereotactic 
body radiation therapy followed by sorafenib was compared to sorafenib alone in 
patients with hepatocellular carcinoma in the NRG/RTOG 1112 study. New options 
in the management of rectal cancer are emerging such as total neoadjuvant 
treatment (PRODIGE 23, RAPIDO, PROSPECT), organ preservation (OPRA, OPERA), and 
the role of immunotherapy in patients with DNA mismatch-repair 
deficient/microsatellite instability. Finally, preliminary results of the ACT 4 
trial that evaluated de-escalation in anal cancer are presented.

Copyright © 2023 Société française de radiothérapie oncologique (SFRO). 
Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2023.08.001
PMID: 38415359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]