1. GE Port J Gastroenterol. 2023 Oct 30;31(4):225-235. doi: 10.1159/000534032. 
eCollection 2024 Aug.

Portuguese Pancreatic Club Perspectives on Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided and 
Surgical Treatment of Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors.

Ribeiro T(1)(2), Castanheira-Rodrigues S(3), Bastos P(4), Cristino H(3), 
Fernandes A(5), Rodrigues-Pinto E(1)(2), Bispo M(6), Rio-Tinto R(6), Vilas-Boas 
F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Centro Hospitalar Universitário de São João, 
Porto, Portugal.
(2)Faculty of Medicine of the University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Centro Hospitalar Universitário de São João, 
Porto, Portugal.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, Instituto Português de Oncologia do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(5)Gastroenterology Department, Centro Hospitalar de Leiria, Leiria, Portugal.
(6)Digestive Oncology Unit, Gastroenterology Department, Champalimaud 
Foundation, Lisbon, Portugal.

Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (panNETs) are a group of neoplasms with 
heterogenous biological and clinical phenotypes. Although historically regarded 
as rare, the incidence of these tumors has been increasing, mostly owing to 
improvements in the detection of small, asymptomatic tumors with imaging. The 
heterogeneity of these lesions creates significant challenges regarding 
diagnosis, staging, and treatment. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) has improved the 
characterization of pancreatic lesions. Furthermore, EUS nowadays has evolved 
from a purely diagnostic modality to allow the performance of minimally invasive 
locoregional therapy for pancreatic focal lesions. The choice of treatment as 
well as the treatment goals depend on several factors, including tumor secretory 
status, grading, staging, and patient performance status. Surgery has been the 
mainstay for the management of these patients, particularly for localized, 
low-grade, large panNETs >2 cm. Over the last decade, a significant body of 
evidence has been accumulated evaluating the role of EUS for the ablative 
therapy of panNETs, namely by the use of chemoablative agents and 
radiofrequency. Although endoscopic techniques are not routinely recommended by 
international guidelines, they may be considered for the treatment of smaller 
lesions in patients who are unwilling or unfit for pancreatic surgery. In this 
review, we summarize the existing evidence on the interventional techniques for 
the treatment of patients with panNETs, focusing on the EUS-guided and surgical 
approaches.

Publisher: Os tumores neuroendócrinos do pâncreas (panNETs) são um grupo de 
neoplasias com comportamento biológico e clínico heterogéneo. Embora 
historicamente considerados raros, a incidência desses tumores tem aumentado, 
algo que se atribui principalmente à melhoria na deteção de pequenos tumores 
assintomáticos em exames de imagem. A heterogeneidade destas lesões cria 
desafios significativos no que respeita ao seu diagnóstico, estadiamento e 
tratamento. A ultrassonografia endoscópica melhorou a caracterização das lesões 
pancreáticas. Concomitantemente, a ultrassonografia endoscópica, para além da 
vertente diagnóstica, evoluiu no sentido do desenvolvimento de capacidades 
terapêuticas, permitindo a realização de terapêutica locorregional de lesões 
pancreáticas focais de forma minimamente invasiva.A seleção do tratamento, bem 
como a definição dos seus objetivos, depende de diversos fatores, incluindo a 
atividade secretora da neoplasia, a sua atividade mitótica, o estadiamento e o 
status funcional do doente. A cirurgia é considerada a pedra basilar do 
tratamento destes doentes, particularmente para panNETs localizados, de baixo 
grau, com >2 cm. Ao longo da última década foi gerado um conjunto significativo 
de evidência relativamente ao papel da ultrassonografia endoscópica na 
terapêutica ablativa dos panNETs, nomeadamente através da utilização de agentes 
quimioablativos e de radiofrequência. Embora as recomendações internacionais não 
recomendem a utilização rotineira destas técnicas para o tratamento dos panNETs, 
as mesmas podem ser consideradas no tratamento de lesões de menores dimensões em 
doentes que não desejem ou que sejam considerados inaptos para cirurgia 
pancreática. Esta revisão visa resumir a evidência existente relativa às 
técnicas de intervenção para o tratamento de pacientes com panNETs, com foco nas 
abordagens cirúrgica e guiada por ultrassonografia endoscópica.

© 2023 The Author(s).Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000534032
PMCID: PMC11250664
PMID: 39022303

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
disclose.