1. Front Immunol. 2024 Jan 19;14:1315468. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1315468. 
eCollection 2023.

Effect of sodium stibogluconate in recruiting and awakening immune cells in the 
pleural fluid of pancreatic cancer: preparation for immunotherapy.

Yu B(1)(2)(3)(4)(5), Jing P(1), Gao F(1), Zhang P(1), Zheng G(1), Zhang X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, TaiMei Baofa Cancer Hospital, Dongping, Shandong, 
China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Jinan Baofa Cancer Hospital, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, Beijing Baofa Cancer Hospital, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, South China Hospital of Shenzhen University, 
Shenzhen, China.
(5)Immune Oncology Systems, Inc., San Diego, CA, United States.

Ascites and pleural effusion are recognized complications of pancreatic cancer. 
These diseases are accompanied by ascites and pleural effusion, and drug 
treatment is limited by high costs, long hospital stays, and failure rates. 
Immunotherapy may offer new option, but in most patients with late stages of 
cancer, immune cells may lose the ability to recognize tumor cells, how to 
activate their immune cells is a major problem, sodium glucosidate (SSG) is 
injected into ascites as a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor to wake up 
immune cells and prepare for immunotherapy. We used single-cell RNA sequencing 
(scRNA-seq) to investigate whether and how SSG injected into ascites of 
pancreatic cancer elicits an immune response. Our study showed that the process 
of SSG fusion treatment of ascites and pleural effusion, the interaction between 
TandNK cells, MPs cells, monocytes and neutrophils was induced, and large 
numbers of genes were expressed, resulting in upregulation of immune response, 
which also approved that SSG is not only used as a protein tyrosine phosphatase 
inhibitor, but also it works as a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor. It can 
also be used to regulate immune cell function, recruiting immune cells to the 
right place with the help of PD-1 or PD-L1 to fight cancer cells in ascites and 
pleural effusions in cancer patients.

Copyright Â© 2024 Yu, Jing, Gao, Zhang, Zheng and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1315468
PMCID: PMC10835622
PMID: 38313432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author BY was employed by the company Immune 
Oncology Systems, Inc. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.