1. Acta Pharm Sin B. 2024 Mar;14(3):1132-1149. doi: 10.1016/j.apsb.2023.08.031. 
Epub 2023 Sep 3.

Metal nanoparticles for cancer therapy: Precision targeting of DNA damage.

Chen Q(1), Fang C(2), Xia F(1), Wang Q(2)(3), Li F(1)(2)(3)(4), Ling D(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutics, Hangzhou Institute of Innovative Medicine, 
College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.
(2)Frontiers Science Center for Transformative Molecules, School of Chemistry 
and Chemical Engineering, National Center for Translational Medicine, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.
(3)World Laureates Association (WLA) Laboratories, Shanghai 201203, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis and Treatment for Hepatobiliary and 
Pancreatic Tumor of Zhejiang Province, Hangzhou 310009, China.

Cancer, a complex and heterogeneous disease, arises from genomic instability. 
Currently, DNA damage-based cancer treatments, including radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy, are employed in clinical practice. However, the efficacy and 
safety of these therapies are constrained by various factors, limiting their 
ability to meet current clinical demands. Metal nanoparticles present promising 
avenues for enhancing each critical aspect of DNA damage-based cancer therapy. 
Their customizable physicochemical properties enable the development of targeted 
and personalized treatment platforms. In this review, we delve into the design 
principles and optimization strategies of metal nanoparticles. We shed light on 
the limitations of DNA damage-based therapy while highlighting the diverse 
strategies made possible by metal nanoparticles. These encompass targeted drug 
delivery, inhibition of DNA repair mechanisms, induction of cell death, and the 
cascading immune response. Moreover, we explore the pivotal role of 
physicochemical factors such as nanoparticle size, stimuli-responsiveness, and 
surface modification in shaping metal nanoparticle platforms. Finally, we 
present insights into the challenges and future directions of metal 
nanoparticles in advancing DNA damage-based cancer therapy, paving the way for 
novel treatment paradigms.

Â© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apsb.2023.08.031
PMCID: PMC10934341
PMID: 38486992

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.