1. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2023 Dec;50(13):1688-1690.

[Robotic and Laparoscopic Pancreaticoduodenectomy for the Elderly Patients-A 
Single Institutional Experience].

[Article in Japanese]

Takeda Y(1), Ohmura Y, Katsura Y, Shinke G, Kinoshita M, Aoyama S, Kihara Y, 
Yanagisawa K, Katsuyama S, Ikeshima R, Hiraki M, Sugimura K, Masuzawa T, Hata T, 
Murata K.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Kansai Rosai Hospital.

INTRODUCTION: Laparoscopic pancreaticoduodenectomy(LPD)has been covered by 
insurance since 2016 in Japan. Advance LPD and robotic 
pancreaticoduodenectomy(RPD)has been also covered by insurance since 2020 in 
Japan. The aim of this study was to analyze the perioperative results and 
outcomes of RPD and LPD for the elderly patients and to compare to the 
non-elderly patients.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: Between July 2020 and April 2023, 67 patients underwent RPD 
and between May 2012 and February 2021, 63 patients underwent LPD at Kansai 
Rosai Hospital. Sixty-seven RPD and 62 LPD patients without extended resection 
were divided into 2 groups those who were over 75 years old(R/LPD E)(n=55)and 
under 74 years old(R/LPD non-E)(n=74). Control patients who received open 
pancreaticoduodenectomy(OPD)without extended resection between April 2010 and 
April 2023 were also divided into 2 groups those who were over 75 years old(OPD 
E)(n =60)and under 74 years old(OPD non-E)(n=78). The patient age was 79.0 and 
60.5 years, the male to female ratio was 35/20 and 45/29, disease ratio(invasive 
ductal carcinoma or not)was 7/48 and 9/65 in R/LPD E and R/LPD non-E groups, 
respectively. The patient age was 79.0 and 79.5 years, the male to female ratio 
was 35/20 and 31/29, disease ratio (invasive ductal carcinoma or not)was 7/48 
and 30/30(p<0.0001)in R/LPD E and OPD E groups, respectively. This study was 
approved by the Human Ethics Review Committee of Kansai Rosai 
Hospital(Certificate Number: 2001019).
RESULTS: The average operation time was 644.6 and 675.2 minutes, an estimated 
blood loss was 220.8 and 134.4 g, postoperative pancreatic fistula(ISGPS 2016, 
[-]/BL/Grade B/C)was 24/18/13/0 and 28/25/21/0, delayed gastric emptying(ISGPS 
2007, [-]/Grade A/B/C)was 48/0/4/3 and 61/2/6/5 and postoperative hospital stay 
was 27.9 and 25.9 and in R/LPD E and R/LPD non-E groups, respectively. No 
significant differences were noted between the groups, However, postoperative 
complication over â…¢a Clavien-Dindo classification was 8(15.7%)and 
3(4.4%)cases(p=0.0319)in R/LPD E and R/ LPD non-E groups. The average operation 
time was 644.6 and 492.1 minutes(p<0.0001), an estimated blood loss was 220.8 
and 534.8 g(p=0.0004), postoperative pancreatic fistula(ISGPS 2016, [-]/BL/Grade 
B/C)was 24/18/13/0 and 27/8/24/1(p=0.0442), postoperative hospital stay was 27.9 
and 42.0(p=0.0490)in R/LPD E and OPD E groups, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The R/LPD was undergone in safety, even for the over 75 years old 
patients.

PMID: 38303174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]