1. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2023 Dec;50(13):1931-1933.

[Pancreatic Acinar Cell Carcinoma with Peritoneal Recurrence Treated with 
Peritonectomy and Intraoperative Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy-A 
Case Report].

[Article in Japanese]

Yonemura Y(1), Ishibashi H, Fujita T, Liu Y, Wakama S, Sako S, Kitai T, Katayama 
K, Kamada Y, Taniguchi K, Fujimoto D, Kajiwara J, Hoffman RM.

Author information:
(1)Asian School of Peritoneal Surface Malignancy Treatment.

A 31-year-old man with a big epigastric mass from pancreas body was completely 
removed by distal pancreatectomy and segmental gastrectomy. Two years after oral 
administration of S-1 for 4 courses, peritoneal dissemination on the right 
subdiaphragmatic space was detected. Laparotomy revealed white colored round 
nodules were found scattered on the peritoneal surface, and the peritoneal 
cancer index(PCI)was 18. To achieve complete resection of peritoneal nodules, 
peritonectomy was performed. After complete removal of macroscopic peritoneal 
metastasis(PM), intraoperative hyperthermic intraoperative peritoneal 
chemotherapy using 1 gr of gemcitabine and 60 mg of docetaxel was performed for 
40 min with thermal dose of 41.5 min. Postoperative course was uneventful. Drug 
sensitivity test(HDRA method)showed that gemcitabine that gemcitabine showed the 
highest inhibition rate. The patient was treated with systemic gemcitabine 
chemotherapy. He is still alive without recurrence 18 months after peritonectomy 
plus intraoperative HIPEC. Pathological examination showed pancreatic acinar 
cell carcinoma(PACC)demonstrating positive for chymotrypsin. In conclusion, we 
present a PACC-case with PM successfully treated by a comprehensive treatment. 
Intraoperative HIPEC using gemcitabine may be effective for PACC patients with 
PM in treating residual micrometastasis after peritonectomy.

PMID: 38303256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]