1. Front Immunol. 2024 Nov 8;15:1459942. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1459942. 
eCollection 2024.

Models of fibrolamellar carcinomas, tools for evaluation of a new era of 
treatments.

Song J(#)(1)(2)(3), Lu M(#)(1)(4), He Z(1)(2)(3)(4), Zhang W(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Medical Innovation Center and State Key 
Laboratory of Cardiology, Shanghai East Hospital, School of Life Sciences and 
Technology, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Engineering Research Center of Stem Cells Translational Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Institute of Stem Cell Research and Clinical Translation, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Postgraduate Training Base of Shanghai East Hospital, Jinzhou Medical 
University, Jinzhou, Liaoning, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is a rare but fatal cancer that occurs primarily 
in young people. There are currently no known effective treatments, although 
several promising treatments appear to be in development. Genetic studies have 
confirmed that almost all FLC tumors have a fusion protein marker 
(DNAJB1-PRKACA) encoded by a fusion gene (DNAJB1-PRKACA); It is currently 
accepted as a diagnostic criterion for FLCs. Several research teams have 
established patient-derived xenograft (PDX) FLC models using immunocompromised 
animals as hosts and patient tissue samples (tumors or ascites) as primary 
sources for PDX-derived organoids. These FLC organoids are composed of FLC 
epithelia, endothelial progenitor cells, and stellate cells. CRISPR/Cas9 was 
used as a gene editing technique to modify mature hepatocytes to obtain ex vivo 
FLC-like cells expressing the fusion gene and/or other mutated genes associated 
with FLCs. Although these models simulate some but not all FLC features. Drug 
screening using these models has not proven effective in identifying clinically 
useful treatments. Genetic studies comparing FLCs to normal maturing endodermal 
cell lineages have shown that FLCs share genetic signatures not with 
hepatocytes, but with subpopulations of biliary tree stem cells (BTSCs), 
hepato/pancreatic stem/progenitor cells that consistently reside in peribiliary 
glands (PBGs) located in the biliary tree and are sources of stem cells for the 
formation and postnatal regeneration of the liver and pancreas. Therefore, it is 
expected that models of BTSCs, instead of hepatocytes may prove more useful. In 
this review, we summarize the status of the various FLC models and their 
features, applications, and limitations. They provide opportunities to 
understand the cause and characteristics of this deadly disease and are models 
from which effective treatments can be identified.

Copyright Â© 2024 Song, Lu, He and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1459942
PMCID: PMC11582006
PMID: 39582856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.