1. Cureus. 2024 Oct 23;16(10):e72239. doi: 10.7759/cureus.72239. eCollection 2024
 Oct.

Recent Trends in Liver Cancer: Epidemiology, Risk Factors, and Diagnostic 
Techniques.

Kale SR(1), Karande G(2), Gudur A(3), Garud A(1), Patil MS(1), Patil S(2).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology and Genetics, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Krishna Vishwa Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be University), Karad, IND.
(2)Microbiology, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Krishna Vishwa 
Vidyapeeth (Deemed to be University), Karad, IND.
(3)Oncology, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences, Krishna Vishwa Vidyapeeth 
(Deemed to be University), Karad, IND.

Liver cancer, particularly hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), poses a significant 
global health challenge due to its high mortality rate. Hepatocellular carcinoma 
and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) are the two main types of primary 
liver cancer (PLC), each with its own set of complexities. Secondary or 
metastatic liver cancer is more common than PLC. It is frequently observed in 
malignancies such as colorectal, pancreatic, melanoma, lung, and breast cancer. 
Liver cancer is often diagnosed at an advanced stage, making it difficult to 
treat. This highlights the need for focused research on early detection and 
effective treatment strategies. This review explores the epidemiology, risk 
factors, and diagnostic techniques for HCC. The development of HCC involves 
various risk factors, including chronic liver diseases, hepatitis B and C 
infections, alcohol consumption, obesity, smoking, and genetic predispositions. 
Various invasive and non-invasive diagnostic techniques, such as biopsy, liquid 
biopsy, and imaging modalities like ultrasonography, computed tomography scans 
(CT scans), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography 
(PET) scans, are utilized for HCC detection and monitoring. Advances in imaging 
technology and biomarker research have led to more accurate and sensitive 
methods for early HCC detection. We also reviewed advanced research on emerging 
techniques, including next-generation sequencing, metabolomics, epigenetic 
biomarkers, and microbiome analysis, which show great potential for advancing 
early diagnosis and personalized treatment strategies. This literature review 
provides insights into the current state of liver cancer diagnosis and promising 
future advancements. Ongoing research and innovation in these areas are 
essential for improving early diagnosis and reducing the global burden of liver 
cancer.

Copyright Â© 2024, Kale et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.72239
PMCID: PMC11584332
PMID: 39583507

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: In compliance with the 
ICMJE uniform disclosure form, all authors declare the following: 
Payment/services info: All authors have declared that no financial support was 
received from any organization for the submitted work. Financial relationships: 
All authors have declared that they have no financial relationships at present 
or within the previous three years with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work. Other relationships: All authors have declared 
that there are no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.