1. Cancers (Basel). 2024 Nov 12;16(22):3803. doi: 10.3390/cancers16223803.

Intra-Operative Tumour Detection and Staging in Pancreatic Cancer Surgery: An 
Integrative Review of Current Standards and Future Directions.

Kotb A(1), Hafeji Z(1), Jesry F(1), Lintern N(1), Pathak S(2), Smith AM(2), 
Lutchman KRD(3)(4), de Bruin DM(4), Hurks R(5), Heger M(6), Khaled YS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Leeds Institute of Medical Research, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UK.
(2)The Pancreato-Biliary Unit, St James's University Teaching Hospital, Leeds 
LS9 7TF, UK.
(3)Department of Surgery, Amsterdam UMC, Location AMC, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Physics, Amsterdam UMC, Location 
AMC, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Amsterdam University Medical 
Center, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Jiaxing Key Laboratory for Photonanomedicine and Experimental Therapeutics, 
Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Medicine, Jiaxing University, Jiaxing 
314001, China.

BACKGROUND: Surgical resection for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) 
entails the excision of the primary tumour and regional lymphadenectomy. This 
traditional strategy is challenged by the high rate of early recurrence, 
suggesting inadequate disease staging. Novel methods of intra-operative staging 
are needed to allow surgical resection to be tailored to the disease's biology.
METHODS: A search of published articles on the PubMed and Embase databases was 
performed using the terms 'pancreas' OR 'pancreatic' AND 'intra-operative 
staging/detection' OR 'guided surgery'. Articles published between January 2000 
and June 2023 were included. Technologies that offered intra-operative staging 
and tailored treatment were curated and summarised in the following integrative 
review.
RESULTS: lymph node (LN) mapping and radioimmunoguided surgery have shown 
promising results but lacked practicality to facilitate real-time 
intra-operative staging for PDAC. Fluorescence-guided surgery (FGS) offers high 
contrast and sensitivity, enabling the identification of cancerous tissue and 
positive LNs with improved precision following intravenous administration of a 
fluorescent agent. The unique properties of optical coherence tomography and 
ultrasound elastography lend themselves to be platforms for virtual biopsy 
intra-operatively.
CONCLUSIONS: Accurate intra-operative staging of PDAC, localisation of 
metastatic LNs, and identification of extra-pancreatic disease remain clinically 
unmet needs under current detection methods and staging standards. 
Tumour-specific FGS combined with other diagnostic and therapeutic modalities 
could improve tumour detection and staging in patients with PDAC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers16223803
PMCID: PMC11592681
PMID: 39594758

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.