1. Cancers (Basel). 2024 Nov 18;16(22):3863. doi: 10.3390/cancers16223863.

Altered Mechanobiology of PDAC Cells with Acquired Chemoresistance to 
Gemcitabine and Paclitaxel.

Gregori A(1)(2)(3), Bergonzini C(4), Capula M(5), de Mercado RR(3), Danen 
EHJ(4), Giovannetti E(1)(2)(5), Schmidt T(3).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Biology and Immunology, Cancer Center Amsterdam, 1081 HV Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Amsterdam UMC, Location Vrije Universiteit 
Amsterdam, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Physics of Life Processes, Huygens-Kamerlingh Onnes Laboratory, Leiden 
University, 2333 CA Leiden, The Netherlands.
(4)Leiden Academic Center for Drug Research, Leiden University, 2333 CC Leiden, 
The Netherlands.
(5)Fondazione Pisana per La Scienza, 56017 San Giuliano Terme, Italy.

Background: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma acquired resistance to chemotherapy 
poses a major limitation to patient survival. Despite understanding some 
biological mechanisms of chemoresistance, much about those mechanisms remains to 
be uncovered. Mechanobiology, which studies the physical properties of cells, 
holds promise as a potential target for addressing the challenges of 
chemoresistance in PDAC. Therefore, we, here in an initial step, assessed the 
altered mechanobiology of PDAC cells with acquired chemoresistance to 
gemcitabine and paclitaxel. Methods: Five PDAC cell lines and six stably 
resistant subclones were assessed for force generation on elastic micropillar 
arrays. Those measurements of mechanical phenotype were complemented by 
single-cell motility and invasion in 3D collagen-based matrix assays. Further, 
the nuclear translocation of Yes-associated protein (YAP), as a measure of 
active mechanical status, was compared, and biomarkers of the 
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) were evaluated using RT-qPCR. 
Results: The PDAC cells with acquired chemoresistance exert higher traction 
forces than their parental/wild-type (WT) cells. In 2D, single-cell motility was 
altered for all the chemoresistant cells, with a cell-type specific pattern. In 
3D, the spheroids of the chemoresistant PDAC cells were able to invade the 
matrix and remodel collagen more than their WT clones. However, YAP nuclear 
translocation and EMT were not significantly altered in relation to changes in 
other physical parameters. Conclusions: This is the first study to investigate 
and report on the altered mechanobiological features of PDAC cells that have 
acquired chemoresistance. A better understanding of mechanical features could 
help in identifying future targets to overcome chemoresistance in PDAC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers16223863
PMCID: PMC11593083
PMID: 39594817

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.