1. Cancer Biol Med. 2024 Nov 27:j.issn.2095-3941.2024.0240. doi: 
10.20892/j.issn.2095-3941.2024.0240. Online ahead of print.

Tumor-related fungi and crosstalk with gut fungi in the tumor microenvironment.

Wang Y(1)(2), Wang Y(1)(2), Zhou Y(1)(2), Feng Y(1)(2), Sun T(1)(3), Xu 
J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Medicine, Cancer Hospital of China Medical University, 
Liaoning Cancer Hospital, Shenyang 110042, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Cancer Hospital of China Medical University, 
Liaoning Cancer Hospital, Shenyang 110042, China.
(3)Department of Oncology Medicine, Cancer Hospital of Dalian University of 
Technology, Shenyang 110042, China.

Most studies on the human gut microbiome have focused on the bacterial fraction 
rather than fungal biomics, which as resulted in an incomplete understanding of 
the fungal microbiome. Recent advances in microbiota detection and 
next-generation sequencing technology have boosted an increase in research on 
fungi. Symbiotic fungi have become increasingly influential in health and 
disease and modulate various physiologic functions within the host. Fungal 
infections can result in high morbidity and mortality rates and are 
life-threatening in some immunocompromised patients. In addition to bacterial 
dysbiosis, alterations in fungal communities are important and have been linked 
to many diseases, including asthma, mental illness, and various cancers. When 
investigating cancer it is imperative to consider the role of fungi alongside 
viruses and bacteria. This review examined the impact of intestinal fungi and 
peri-tumor fungi on tumorigenesis, cancer progression, and response to 
anticancer therapies. The review highlights the specific involvement of some 
fungal species in cancers include digestive tract tumors such as colorectal, 
pancreatic, liver, and gastric cancers, as well as non-digestive tract tumors 
such as lung, melanoma, breast, and ovarian cancers. Furthermore, fungal 
mechanisms of action, including fungus-host recognition and immune regulation, 
biofilm formation, toxin and metabolite production in the tumor 
microenvironment, and the complex effects of fungus-bacteria interactions on 
tumorigenesis and development, highlight the significance of potential 
biomarkers in cancer diagnosis and treatment.

Copyright Â© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.20892/j.issn.2095-3941.2024.0240
PMID: 39601429

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflicts of interest are 
disclosed.