1. J Clin Med. 2024 Nov 16;13(22):6893. doi: 10.3390/jcm13226893.

Glypican-3 and Cytokeratin-19 Expression in Pancreatic Cancer in a Canadian 
Population.

Bekkers C(1), Ramjeesingh R(2), Arnason T(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Anatomical Pathology, Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre, 
Halifax, NS B3H 1V8, Canada.
(2)Division of Medical Oncology, Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre, 
Halifax, NS B3H 3A7, Canada.

Background/Objectives: One study of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma has found 
expression of glypican-3 (GPC3) and cytokeratin-19 (CK19) determined by 
immunohistochemistry to be associated with higher stage and grade disease, with 
a more adverse prognosis. The reported 44% rate of GPC3 expression in pancreatic 
cancer raises the important possibility that targeted immunotherapies currently 
in development for hepatocellular carcinoma may also prove useful for 
GPC3-expressing pancreatic cancers. The present study aims to determine if a 
similar expression pattern of these markers and stage/grade/prognostic 
associations is present in our Canadian patient population. Methods: Patients 
with a pancreatic surgical resection for adenocarcinoma or neuroendocrine tumor 
(NET) were identified from pathology records over a 5-year period. 
Immunohistochemistry for GPC3 and CK19 was performed on archived tumor tissue 
and the proportion of positive cells and intensity of staining were recorded. 
Grade, stage, and overall survival were compared in patients with NETs that were 
CK19-positive versus -negative. Results: All 72 pancreatic adenocarcinomas and 
20 NETs tested were negative for GPC3, apart from a single case of pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma. All 72 adenocarcinomas were positive for CK19 expression. Half 
of the NETs were positive for CK19. There was no correlation between CK19 
expression in NETs and tumor grade, lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis, 
or overall survival. Conclusions: We are skeptical of the reported prognostic 
value of GPC3 and CK19 in pancreatic adenocarcinomas. CK19 as a prognostic 
marker in NETs has potential for further study. The results with our protocol 
for GPC3 immunohistochemistry suggest that pancreatic cancer may be a less 
promising target for GPC3-targeted immunotherapies than previously thought.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm13226893
PMCID: PMC11594598
PMID: 39598037

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.