1. Biomedicines. 2024 Nov 13;12(11):2596. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12112596.

Peripheral Eosinophil Count May Be the Prognostic Factor for Overall Survival in 
Patients with Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Undergoing Surgical Treatment.

Ciesielski W(1), Kupryś-Lipińska I(2), Kumor-Kisielewska A(3), Grząsiak O(1), 
Borodacz J(4), Niedźwiecki S(5), Hogendorf P(1), Durczyński A(1), Strzelczyk 
J(1), Majos A(1).

Author information:
(1)General and Transplant Surgery Department, Medical University of Łódź, 90-419 
Łódź, Poland.
(2)Internal Medicine, Asthma and Allergy Department, Medical University of Łódź, 
90-419 Łódź, Poland.
(3)Department of Pneumology and Allergy, Medical University of Łódź, 90-419 
Łódź, Poland.
(4)Students' Scientific Association in General and Transplant Surgery 
Department, Medical University of Łódź, 90-419 Łódź, Poland.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Medical University of Łódź, 90-419 Łódź, 
Poland.

(1) Background: The importance of total eosinophil count in peripheral blood 
(EOS) as a type 2 inflammation marker is known to be fundamental in asthma, 
chronic sinusitis, and vasculitis. In cancer, despite their questionable 
antiproliferative effect, their role remains unclear. Our purpose was to 
describe the relationship between baseline blood EOS and overall survival (OS) 
in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients. (2) Methods: We 
retrospectively analyzed data from 137 adult patients who underwent surgical 
treatment for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) between the years 2012 and 
2019. Patients with no recent history of systemic steroid use and without 
intraoperative metastases were included. Patients were categorized into two 
groups based on EOS (≥0.1 G/l and <0.1 G/l). Survival outcomes were analyzed 
using Cox proportional hazards regression models. (3) Results: According to EOS 
and PDAC stage, median OS values were as follows: in stage I-III, EOS ≥ 0.1 G/l 
group: 14.5 months, in stage I-III, EOS < 0.1 G/l group: 8.0 months, in stage 
IV, EOS ≥ 0.1 G/l group: 7.0 months, and in stage IV, EOS < 0.1 G/l group: 5.0 
months. EOS < 0.1 G/l (vs. ≥0.1 G/l) was an independent prognostic factor for OS 
in both the uni- and multivariate Cox regression, respectively (HR = 1.48, p = 
0.035 and HR = 1.57, p = 0.021). (4) Conclusions: Peripheral eosinophilia seems 
to be a potential independent prognostic factor. Further studies are necessary 
to confirm this hypothesis, since our findings suggest that type 2 inflammation 
may be the factor directly or indirectly lengthening the survival of patients 
with PDAC.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines12112596
PMCID: PMC11591827
PMID: 39595162

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.