1. Pharmaceutics. 2024 Oct 30;16(11):1401. doi: 10.3390/pharmaceutics16111401.

Abiraterone and Galeterone, Powerful Tools Against Prostate Cancer: Present and 
Perspective.

Kuzminac IZ(1), Nikolić AR(1), Savić MP(1), Ajduković JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Biochemistry and Environmental Protection, Faculty 
of Sciences, University of Novi Sad, Trg Dositeja Obradovića 3, 21000 Novi Sad, 
Serbia.

Due to the high prostate cancer incidence worldwide, the development of 
different methods of treatment continues to be a hot research topic. Since its 
first clinical application at the beginning of the 2010s, abiraterone in the 
form of prodrug abiraterone acetate continues to be the most used hormone 
derivative in the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer. This is the 
reason behind the publication of many scientific results regarding its 
synthesis, biological activity, metabolism, novel designed steroid derivatives 
based on its structure, etc. A similar steroid compound with a heterocycle in 
the C17 position, called galeterone, also designed to treat prostate cancer, 
continues to be in clinical studies, which provides further proof of the 
importance of these steroid derivatives. Besides prostate cancer treatment, 
abiraterone showed indications for possible clinical application in the 
treatment of breast, ovarian, lung, kidney, salivary gland, and adrenocortical 
cancer, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, Cushing's syndrome, and COVID-19, while 
galeterone is investigated for its use against prostate, pancreatic, and breast 
cancer. Herein, we report a review comprising methods of synthesis, possible 
clinical applications, and mechanisms of action, as well as structures and 
bioactivities of derivatives of these two important steroids.

DOI: 10.3390/pharmaceutics16111401
PMCID: PMC11597628
PMID: 39598525

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of the data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the 
decision to publish the results.