1. Surg Case Rep. 2024 Nov 27;10(1):272. doi: 10.1186/s40792-024-02066-7.

Simplified technique in total pancreatectomy with islet cell autotransplantation 
after Frey's procedure: a case report.

Oikawa R(1), Takemura N(2), Shimoda M(1), Nakamura M(1), Mihara F(1), Inagaki 
F(1), Kokudo N(1).

Author information:
(1)Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery Division, Department of Surgery, National 
Center for Global Health and Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 
162-8655, Japan.
(2)Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery Division, Department of Surgery, National 
Center for Global Health and Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 
162-8655, Japan. ntakemura@hosp.ncgm.go.jp.

BACKGROUND: The selection of the surgical approach for chronic pancreatitis (CP) 
is determined by various factors including inflammatory location, presence of 
pancreatic duct dilatation, or possibility of cancer. Total pancreatectomy (TP), 
with or without islet cell autotransplantation, is considered for patients with 
refractory CP after the failure of other surgical treatments. Considering the 
increasing incidence of CP requiring surgical treatment, the number of cases in 
which TP is performed after previous surgical treatment is expected to increase.
CASE PRESENTATION: We reported a case of TPIAT in a patient with alcoholic CP 
who had previously undergone Frey's procedure. During the operation, the 
sufficient length of the elevated jejunal loop for pancreaticojejunostomy in 
Frey's procedure allowed it to be used directly for biliary jejunostomy during 
TP. In addition, jejunojejunostomy from the previous operation could be used, 
and these methods contributed to simplifying the operative procedure. We need 
open hemostasis on post-operative day (POD) 1and a percutaneous drainage tube 
replacement for an intraperitoneal abscess on POD 24. The patient was discharged 
from the hospital on POD 37 with normal serum C-peptide level, which suggests 
favorable insulin secretion from transplanted islets, and the epigastric pain 
that suffered her preoperatively resulted in a dramatic improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: When performing the Frey's procedure, the elevated jejunal loop and 
Y-anastomosis jejunal loop with sufficient length allow them to be used directly 
for the reconstructions in the possible subsequent TP.

Â© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40792-024-02066-7
PMID: 39601997

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This article satisfied the consensus of the National Center for 
Global Health and Medicine Research Ethics Committee/Institutional Review Board. 
Consent for publication: Informed consent was obtained from the patient 
presented in this article. Competing interests: The authors disclose no 
conflicts.