1. Biomolecules. 2024 Nov 4;14(11):1401. doi: 10.3390/biom14111401.

Double-Edge Effects of Leucine on Cancer Cells.

Akbay B(1), Omarova Z(1), Trofimov A(1), Sailike B(1), Karapina O(1), Moln√°r 
F(1), Tokay T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, School of Sciences and Humanities, Nazarbayev 
University, Kabanbay Batyr 53, Astana 010000, Kazakhstan.

Leucine is an essential amino acid that cannot be produced endogenously in the 
human body and therefore needs to be obtained from dietary sources. Leucine 
plays a pivotal role in stimulating muscle protein synthesis, along with 
isoleucine and valine, as the group of branched-chain amino acids, making them 
one of the most popular dietary supplements for athletes and gym-goers. The 
individual effects of leucine, however, have not been fully clarified, as most 
of the studies so far have focused on the grouped effects of branched-chain 
amino acids. In recent years, leucine and its metabolites have been shown to 
stimulate muscle protein synthesis mainly via the mammalian target of the 
rapamycin complex 1 signaling pathway, thereby improving muscle atrophy in 
cancer cachexia. Interestingly, cancer research suggests that leucine may have 
either anti-cancer or pro-tumorigenic effects. In the current manuscript, we aim 
to review leucine's roles in muscle protein synthesis, tumor suppression, and 
tumor progression, specifically summarizing the molecular mechanisms of 
leucine's action. The role of leucine is controversial in hepatocellular 
carcinoma, whereas its pro-tumorigenic effects have been demonstrated in breast 
and pancreatic cancers. In summary, leucine being used as nutritional supplement 
for athletes needs more attention, as its pro-oncogenic effects may have been 
identified by recent studies. Anti-cancer or pro-tumorigenic effects of leucine 
in various cancers should be further investigated to achieve clear conclusions.

DOI: 10.3390/biom14111401
PMCID: PMC11591885
PMID: 39595578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.