1. Front Oncol. 2024 Nov 12;14:1378691. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1378691.
eCollection  2024.

An insight to PDAC tumor heterogeneity across pancreatic subregions using 
computed tomography images.

Javed S(1), Qureshi TA(1), Wang L(1), Azab L(1), Gaddam S(1), Pandol SJ(1), Li 
D(1).

Author information:
(1)Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, United States.

Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an exceptionally deadly form of 
pancreatic cancer with an extremely low survival rate. From diagnosis to 
treatment, PDAC is highly challenging to manage. Studies have demonstrated that 
PDAC tumors in distinct regions of the pancreas exhibit unique characteristics, 
influencing symptoms, treatment responses, and survival rates. Gaining insight 
into the heterogeneity of PDAC tumors based on their location in the pancreas 
can significantly enhance overall management of PDAC. Previous studies have 
explored PDAC tumor heterogeneity across pancreatic subregions based on their 
genetic and molecular profiles through biopsy-based histologic assessment. 
However, biopsy examinations are highly invasive and impractical for large 
populations. Abdominal imaging, such as Computed Tomography (CT) offers a 
completely non-invasive means to evaluate PDAC tumor heterogeneity across 
pancreatic subregions and an opportunity to correlate image feature of tumors 
with treatment outcome and monitoring. In this study, we explored the 
inter-tumor heterogeneity in PDAC tumors across three primary pancreatic 
subregions: the head, body, and tail. Utilizing contrast-enhanced abdominal CT 
scans and a thorough radiomic analysis of PDAC tumors, several morphological and 
textural tumor features were identified to be notably different between tumors 
in the head and those in the body and tail regions. To validate the significance 
of the identified features, a machine learning ML model was trained to 
automatically classify PDAC tumors into their respective regions i.e. head or 
body/tail subregion using their CT features. The study involved 200 CT abdominal 
scans, with 100 used for radiomic analysis and model training, and the remaining 
100 for model testing. The ML model achieved an average classification accuracy, 
sensitivity, and specificity of 87%, 86%, and 88% on the testing scans 
respectively. Evaluating the heterogeneity of PDAC tumors across pancreatic 
subregions provides valuable insights into tumor composition and has the 
potential to enhance diagnosis and personalize treatment based on tumor 
characteristics and location.

Copyright Â© 2024 Javed, Qureshi, Wang, Azab, Gaddam, Pandol and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1378691
PMCID: PMC11588633
PMID: 39600638

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.