1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2024 Nov 25. doi: 10.1021/acsami.4c12936. Online 
ahead of print.

Multifunctional System with Camptothecin and [12]aneN(3) Units for Effective In 
Vivo Anti Pancreatic Cancer through Synergistic Chemotherapy, Gene Therapy, and 
Photodynamic Therapy.

Yang JB(1)(2), Xu DZ(1), Zhang ZH(1), Zhang X(1), Ren ZX(1), Lu ZL(1), Liu R(1), 
Liu Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Radiopharmaceuticals, Ministry of Education; College of 
Chemistry, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, P. R. China.
(2)China National Institute for Food and Drug Control, Institute of Chemical 
Drug Control, HuaTuo Road 29, Beijing 100050, China.

Maximizing drug cargo carrying capacity in blood circulation, controlling the in 
vivo fate of nanoparticles, and precisely drug release to tumor targets are the 
main aims of multifunctional nanomedicine-based antitumor therapy. Here we 
combined macrocyclic polyamine di(triazole-[12]aneN3) (M) and chemical drug 
camptothecin (CPT, C) through photosensitizer 
1,1-dicyano-2-phenyl-2-(4-diphenylamino) phenyl-ethylene (DT) containing the 
cleavable disulfide (S) linkage as an all-in-one theranostic nanoprodrug, MDTSC. 
The corresponding compound with carbon chain (C) linkage, MDTCC, was also 
prepared for a comparison study. MDTSC showed the ability to carry plasmids, 
including the p53 tumor suppressor gene, to form lipoplexes with a size of âˆ¼150 
nm. Further addition of DOPE-PEG2k resulted in the hybrid lipoplexes 
MDTSC/DOPE-PEG2k@DNA, which showed good stability in blood circulation and good 
biocompatibility to normal cell lines. Experiments demonstrated that the hybrid 
lipoplexes were able to realize the successful cellular uptake and endosomal 
escape, to generate ROS under visible light irradiation as well as to trigger 
the localized release of CPT and the plasmid encoding p53 in tumor cells. In 
vitro, the hybrid lipoplexes showed better EGFP expression than the commercial 
Lipo2000, and markedly reduced tumor cell proliferation and migration rate 
irrespective of whether the BxPC-3 cell lines were grown on plates or 3D tumor 
spheroids. In vivo, the hybrid lipoplexes showed effective anticancer activity 
by reducing the BxPC-3 pancreatic tumor growth by 99% through the synergetic 
combination of chemotherapy, photodynamic therapy, and gene therapy. This 
research represented the first example of using a cocktail of three therapeutic 
approaches to achieve cooperative and effective anti pancreatic cancer treatment 
in vivo and in vitro.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.4c12936
PMID: 39585759