1. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Nov 16;25(22):12307. doi: 10.3390/ijms252212307.

High p53 Protein Level Is a Negative Prognostic Marker for Pancreatic 
Adenocarcinoma.

Klein SM(1)(2), Bozko M(3), Toennießen A(4), Rangno D(1), Bozko P(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Universitätsklinikum Tübingen, Universität 
Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Str. 10, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.
(2)M3 Research Institute, University Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Genetics and Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology, University of 
Warsaw, 02-106 Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, University Tübingen, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is one of the most aggressive types of cancer. Among 
different mechanisms generally believed to be important for the development of 
cancer, aberrant regulation of the p53 protein is a well-known and common 
feature for many cancer entities. Our work aims to analyze the impact of p53 
deregulation and proteins encoded by p53 target genes on the survival of 
patients suffering from pancreatic adenocarcinoma. We, therefore, focused on the 
analysis of the selected collective for the TP53 mutation status, the p53 
protein level, their correlation, and possible impacts on the 
prognosis/survival. We compared and analyzed a set of 123 patients. We have 
extracted information regarding the TP53 mutation status, p53 protein levels, 
the level of proteins encoded by prominent p53 target genes, and information on 
the overall survival. Survival analyses were displayed by Kaplan-Meier plots, 
using the log-rank test, in order to check for statistical significance. Protein 
levels were compared using the Mann-Whitney Test. We did not find any 
statistically significant correlation between the TP53 mutation status and the 
survival of the patients. Moreover, we have not found any significant 
correlation between the protein amount of prominent p53 target genes and the 
patients' survival. However, we see a significant correlation between the p53 
protein level in cancer samples and the overall survival of pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma patients: patients having tumors with a p53 protein level within 
the upper quartile of all measured cases show a significantly reduced survival 
compared to the rest of the patients. Thus, in pancreatic adenocarcinoma, the 
p53 protein level is a relevant marker for prognosis, and cancers having a high 
p53 protein amount show a shortened patients' survival. In contrast, for this 
cancer entity, the TP53 mutation status or the protein amount of prominent p53 
target genes on their own seems not to have a significant impact on survival.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252212307
PMCID: PMC11594790
PMID: 39596373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.