1. Small. 2024 Nov 26:e2408527. doi: 10.1002/smll.202408527. Online ahead of
print.

A Self-Calibrating Fluorescent-Photoacoustic Integrated Probe Enables Fast 
Visualizing Pancreatic Cancer and Imaging-Guided Tumor Surgery.

Hu C(1)(2), Liu H(1)(2)(3), Zhang Z(2), Li L(2), Mao GJ(3), Cheng W(1), Zhou 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Hunan Provincial People's Hospital, The 
First Affiliated Hospital of Hunan Normal University, Changsha, 410005, P. R. 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology and Traditional Chinese Medicine Research 
(Ministry of Education), College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Hunan 
Normal University, Changsha, 410081, P. R. China.
(3)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Henan Normal University, 
Xinxiang, Henan, 453007, P. R. China.

Pancreatic cancer is known for its high invasiveness and metastasis, making 
rapid visualization and precise treatment critical for improving patient 
outcomes. Current diagnostic tools lack abilities to provide rapid and accurate 
tumor localization, particularly for real-time intraoperative guidance. To 
address this gap, the study has developed a novel Förster Resonance Energy 
Transfer (FRET)-mediated dual-ratiometric near-infrared fluorescence 
(NIRF)/photoacoustic (PA) bimodal probe, SiRho-SHD-NTR, specifically designed 
for the fast and accurate navigation of pancreatic tumor resection. The probe, 
due to its excellent binding affinity with nitroreductase (NTR), can rapidly 
reach response saturation. Cellular experiments demonstrate that the probe 
rapidly and efficiently penetrates cancer cells, enhancing the effectiveness of 
PA imaging for preliminary diagnosis and tumor localization, while also enabling 
the rapid visualization of pancreatic tumors through NIRF imaging. Leveraging 
the rapid response characteristics of the probe to NTR, the study achieves 
precise tumor imaging in orthotopic pancreatic cancer mice by spraying the 
probe, within ≈5 min. More importantly, the probe even allows for the fast 
visualization of metastatic tumors and fluorescence-guided surgical resection. 
It is believed that SiRho-SHD-NTR will offer a promising method in the rapid 
visualization of pancreatic cancer and provide a powerful tool for 
imaging-guided tumor surgery, targeting both primary and metastatic tumors.

© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202408527
PMID: 39593243