1. Front Oncol. 2024 Nov 11;14:1382818. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1382818.
eCollection  2024.

Screening high-risk individuals for primary gastric adenocarcinoma: evaluating 
progression-free survival probability score in the presence and absence of 
Rictor expression after gastrectomy.

Wang J(1), Li Y(1), Liang S(2).

Author information:
(1)Hepatobiliary, Pancreatic and Gastrointestinal Surgery, Shanxi Hospital 
Affiliated to Carcinoma Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Shanxi 
Province Carcinoma Hospital, Carcinoma Hospital Affiliated to Shanxi Medical 
University, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Shanxi Province Cancer Hospital, Shanxi Hospital 
Affiliated to Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Cancer 
Hospital Affiliated to Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China.

OBJECTIVE: Developing nomogram-based risk stratification model to determine 
3-year and 5-year progression-free survival (PFS) and to identify high-risk 
patients with gastric adenocarcinoma based on different Rictor statuses.
METHODS: 1366 individuals who underwent radical gastric surgery to treat gastric 
adenocarcinoma at Shanxi Cancer Hospital from May 2002 to December 2020 were 
analyzed. Cox regression analysis was employed to create the nomograms. The 
nomograms' performance was assessed using C-index, time receiver operating 
characteristic (t-ROC) curves, calibration curves, and decision curve analysis 
(DCA) curves in training and validation cohorts. Subsequently, patients were 
categorized into high-risk and low-risk groups based on the nomogram's risk 
scores.
RESULTS: The Rictor (-) nomogram for predicting PFS included variables such as 
age, number of positive lymph nodes, vascular invasion, maximum diameter of the 
tumor, omentum metastasis, and expression of MSH2. In the internal validation, 
the C-index of the Rictor (-) nomogram was 0.760 (95%CI: 0.720-0.799), which was 
superior to the C-index of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) 8th 
edition TNM staging (0.683, 95%CI: 0.646-0.721). Similarly, the Rictor (+) 
nomogram for predicting PFS included variables such as gender, age, pT stage, 
number of positive lymph nodes, neural invasion, maximum diameter of the tumor, 
omentum metastasis, Clavien-Dindo classification for complications, and CGA 
expression. The C-index of the Rictor (+) nomogram was 0.795 (95%CI: 
0.764-0.825), which outperformed the C-index of the AJCC 8th edition TNM staging 
(0.693, 95%CI: 0.662-0.723). The calibration curves, t-ROC curves, and decision 
curve analysis for both nomogram models demonstrated their excellent prediction 
ability.
CONCLUSION: This study presents the first risk stratification for Rictor status 
in gastric adenocarcinoma. Our model identifies low-risk patients who may not 
require additional postoperative treatment, while high-risk patients should 
consider targeted therapies that specifically target Rictor-positive indicators.

Copyright Â© 2024 Wang, Li and Liang.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2024.1382818
PMCID: PMC11586260
PMID: 39588299

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.