1. ACS Appl Nano Mater. 2022 Nov 2;5(11):17212-17225. doi:
10.1021/acsanm.2c04211.  eCollection 2022 Nov 25.

Synergistic Phenomena between Iron-Doped ZnO Nanoparticles and Shock Waves 
Exploited against Pancreatic Cancer Cells.

Carofiglio M(1), Conte M(1), Racca L(1), Cauda V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Science and Technology, Politecnico di Torino, C.so 
Duca degli Abruzzi 24, 10129Turin, Italy.

We propose the use of iron-doped zinc oxide nanoparticles (Fe:ZnO NPs) showing 
theranostic capabilities and being synergistically active against pancreatic 
ductal adenocarcinoma once combined with mechanical pressure waves, such as 
shock waves. Fe:ZnO NPs are synthesized by employing oleic acid as a capping 
agent and are functionalized with amino-propyl groups. We first report their 
superior characteristics with respect to undoped ZnO NPs in terms of magnetic 
properties, colloidal stability, cytocompatibility, and internalization into 
BxPC-3 pancreatic cancer cells in vitro. These Fe:ZnO NPs are also 
cytocompatible toward normal pancreatic cells. We then perform a synergistic 
cell treatment with both shock waves and Fe:ZnO NPs once internalized into 
cells. We also evaluate the contribution to the synergistic activity of the NPs 
located in the extracellular space. Results show that both NPs and shock waves, 
when administered separately, are safe to cells, while their combination 
provokes an enhanced cell death after 24 h. Various mechanisms are then 
considered, such as dissolution of NPs, production of free radicals, and cell 
membrane disruption or permeation. It is understood so far that iron-doped ZnO 
NPs can degrade intracellularly into zinc cations, while the use of shock waves 
produce cell membrane permeabilization and possible rupture. In contrast, the 
production of reactive oxygen species is here ruled out. The provoked cell death 
can be recognized in both apoptotic and necrotic events. The proposed work is 
thus a first proof-of-concept study enabling promising future applications to 
deep-seated tumors such as pancreatic cancer, which is still an unmet clinical 
need with a tremendous death rate.

Â© 2022 American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/acsanm.2c04211
PMCID: PMC9953328
PMID: 36851991

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.