1. Cancer Res Commun. 2022 Oct 12;2(10):1162-1173. doi: 
10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0093. eCollection 2022 Oct.

Under-Representation of Racial Groups in Genomics Studies of 
Gastroenteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Neoplasms.

Herring BR(1), Bonner A(1), Guenter RE(1), Vickers S(1), Yates C(2), Lee G(3), 
Dhall D(3), Chen H(1), Rose JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Alabama at Birmingham School of 
Medicine, Birmingham, Alabama.
(2)Department of Biology, Tuskegee University, Tuskegee, Alabama.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Alabama at Birmingham School of 
Medicine, Birmingham, Alabama.

Not all populations are poised to benefit from advancing genomics in 
gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (GEP-NEN), as genomics have 
focused on White patients. This study aimed to evaluate racial populations 
represented in genomic studies of GEP-NENs and to provide evidence of 
differential genomic findings between racial groups in GEP-NENs. Manuscripts 
analyzing DNA, RNA, or DNA methylation in GEP-NENs were queried using PUBMED and 
EMBASE. NIH race/ethnicity term frequency was then determined by Natural 
Language Processing, followed by manual evaluation of tumor types and subjects 
by racial group. IHC of institutional tissue micro-arrays and analysis of AACR 
GENIE data analyzed was performed to determine mutational differences between 
Black and White pancreatic NEN (pNEN) patients. 313 manuscripts conducted the 
requisite genomic analyses, 16 of which included subject race data. Race data 
were included in 13/184 DNA, 4/107 RNA, and 1/54 DNA Methylation analyses. These 
studies included 89% White subjects (n = 2032), 5.8% Asian subjects (n = 132), 
4.0% "Other" subjects (n = 93), and 1.2% Black subjects (n = 27). No Native 
American/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, or ethnically 
Hispanic/Latinx subjects were represented. There were significant differences in 
MEN1 mutations among Black and White patients in immunohistochemical (13:40) and 
GENIE data (24:268 patients per group, respectively), with 9 additional genes 
differentially mutated in the GENIE dataset. Genomic sequencing data for 
GEP-NENs is almost racially homogenous. Differences in pNEN genomics may exist 
between racial groups, highlighting a need for diversity in future genomic 
analyses of GEP-NENs to understand the putative influence of interracial genomic 
variation on GEP-NEN prevention, diagnosis, and therapy.
SIGNIFICANCE: There is little diversity in genomic studies of GEP-NENs, which 
may exhibit clinically impactful variation in their tumor biology among racial 
groups. Improved diversity in such studies is imperative for understanding this 
variation and its potential impacts on disease prevention, diagnosis, 
therapeutic targeting, and clinical outcomes.

Â© 2022 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0093
PMCID: PMC10035394
PMID: 36969744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C.C. Yates reports personal fees from Riptide 
Biosciences, other from Riptide Biosciences, personal fees from QED 
Therapeutics, and personal fees from Amgen outside the submitted work. J. Rose 
reports grants from NCI and grants from Reed Foundation during the conduct of 
the study. No other disclosures were reported.