1. Ann Med. 2022 Dec;54(1):1047-1057. doi: 10.1080/07853890.2022.2059101.

Broad reactivity and enhanced potency of recombinant anti-EGFR × anti-CD3 
bispecific antibody-armed activated T cells against solid tumours.

Huang MTF(1)(2), Sharma V(3), Mendelsohn A(3), Wei Q(3), Li J(3), Yu B(3), 
Larrick JW(3), Lum LG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of 
Virginia Cancer Center, Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(2)TransTarget, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA, USA.
(3)Panorama Research, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA, USA.

Introduction: Bispecific antibody (BiAb)-armed activated T cells (BATs) comprise 
an adoptive T cell therapy platform for treating cancer. Arming activated T 
cells (ATC) with anti-CD3 x anti-tumour associated antigen (TAA) BiAbs converts 
ATC into non-major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-restricted anti-tumour 
cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). Binding of target antigens via the BiAb bridge 
enables specific anti-tumour cytotoxicity, Th1 cytokines release, and T cell 
proliferation. Clinical trials in breast, prostate, and pancreatic cancer using 
BATs armed with chemically heteroconjugated BiAbs demonstrated safety, 
feasibility, induction of anti-tumour immune responses and potential increases 
in overall survival (OS).Objectives: The primary objective of this study was to 
develop a recombinant BiAb that confers enhanced anti-tumour activity of BATs 
against a broad range of solid tumours.Methods: A recombinant anti-epidermal 
growth factor receptor (EGFR) x anti-CD3 (OKT3) BiAb (rEGFRBi) was designed and 
expressed in CHO cells, used to arm ATC (rEGFR-BATs), and tested for specific 
cytotoxicity against breast, pancreatic and prostate cancers and 
glioblastoma.Results: rEGFR-BATs exhibit remarkably enhanced specific 
cytotoxicity and T1 cytokine secretion against a wide range of solid tumour cell 
lines vs. their respective chemically-heteroconjugated BATs.Conclusion: 
rEGFR-BATs may provide a "universal" T cell therapy for treating a wide range of 
solid tumours. KEY MESSAGEA (Gly4Ser)6 linker between the variable light and 
heavy chains of an scFv fused to the N-terminus of a heavy chain antibody 
confers unexpected stability to the heavy chain fusion protein and supports the 
efficient expression of the bispecific antibody.Arming of activated T cells with 
the rEGFRBi greatly enhances the relative cytotoxicity and Th1 cytokine 
secretion of theT cells relative to a chemically heteroconjugated 
BiAbs.rEGFR-BATs are promising candidates for the treatment of a broad range of 
solid tumours.

DOI: 10.1080/07853890.2022.2059101
PMCID: PMC9045764
PMID: 36799362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: LGL, JWL and MH are co-founders of TransTarget, 
Inc. JWL and BY are co-founders of Larix, Inc. The data presented in this 
manuscript are original and have not been published elsewhere except in the form 
of abstracts and poster presentations at symposiums and meetings.