1. Pancreas. 2022 Oct 1;51(9):1092-1104. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002154.

Clinically Relevant Biology of Hyaluronic Acid in the Desmoplastic Stroma of 
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma.

Jahedi H(1), Ramachandran A(1), Windsor J(2), Knowlton N, Blenkiron C, Print 
CG(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Molecular Medicine and Pathology.
(2)Surgery.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is notorious for its poor outcome. The 
presence of a dense desmoplastic stroma is a hallmark of this malignancy, and 
abundant hyaluronic acid (HA) within this stroma is a common feature of PDAC. At 
the end of 2019, an HA-targeting drug, after initial promise, failed phase 3 
clinical trials in PDAC. This failure in the face of such strong evidence for 
biological importance forces us to turn back to the research and seek a better 
understanding of HA biology in PDAC. Therefore, in this review, we reexamine 
what is known about HA biology, the methods used to detect and quantify HA, and 
the ability of the biological models in which HA has been investigated to 
recapitulate an HA-rich desmoplastic tumor stroma. The role of HA in PDAC relies 
on its complex interplay with a range of HA-associated molecules, which have not 
been as extensively investigated as HA itself. Therefore, using large genomic 
data sets, we cataloged the abundance and activity in PDAC of molecules that 
modulate HA synthesis, degradation, protein interactions, and receptor binding. 
Based on their association with clinical characteristics and individual patient 
outcomes, we suggest a small number of HA-associated molecules that warrant 
further investigation as biomarkers and drug targets.

Copyright Â© 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002154
PMID: 37078930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.