1. Cancer Res Commun. 2022 Oct 20;2(10):1229-1243. doi: 
10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0190. eCollection 2022 Oct.

Diagnostic Accuracy of Blood-based Biomarkers for Pancreatic Cancer: A 
Systematic Review and Meta-analysis.

Kane LE(1), Mellotte GS(2), Mylod E(1), O'Brien RM(1), O'Connell F(1), Buckley 
CE(1), Arlow J(3), Nguyen K(3), Mockler D(4), Meade AD(3), Ryan BM(2), Maher 
SG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Trinity St. James's Cancer Institute, Trinity College 
Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Tallaght University Hospital, Dublin, 
Ireland.
(3)School of Physics and Clinical Optometric Science, Technological University 
Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Medical Library, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a 5-year survival rate below 5%. 
Carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) is the most commonly used blood-based 
biomarker for PDAC in current clinical practice, despite having been shown 
repeatedly to be inaccurate and have poor diagnostic performance. This review 
aims to assess the reported diagnostic accuracy of all blood-based biomarkers 
investigated to date in PDAC, by directly comparing individual biomarkers and 
multi-biomarker panels, both containing CA19-9 and not (novel). A systematic 
review was conducted in accordance with PRISMA standards in July 2020. 
Individualized search strategies for three academic databases identified 5,885 
studies between the years 1973 and 2020. After two rounds of screening, 250 
studies were included. Data were extracted and assessed for bias. A multivariate 
three-level meta-analysis with subgroup moderators was run in R using AUC values 
as effect size. On the basis of this model, the pooled AUC value for all 
multi-biomarker panels (AUC = 0.898; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.88-0.91) 
was significantly higher than all single biomarkers (AUC = 0.803; 95% CI: 
0.78-0.83; P < 0.0001). The pooled AUC value for CA19-9 alone was significantly 
lower compared with the multi-biomarker panels containing CA19-9 (P < 0.0001). 
For the novel biomarkers, the pooled AUC for single biomarkers was also 
significantly lower compared with multi-biomarker panels (P < 0.0001). Novel 
biomarkers that have been repeatedly examined across the literature, such as 
TIMP-1, CEA, and CA125, are highlighted as promising. These results suggest that 
CA19-9 may be best used as an addition to a panel of biomarkers rather than 
alone, and that multi-biomarker panels generate the most robust results in 
blood-based PDAC diagnosis.
SIGNIFICANCE: In a systematic review and three-level multivariate meta-analysis, 
it is shown for the first time that blood-based multi-biomarker panels for the 
diagnosis of PDAC exhibit superior performance in comparison with single 
biomarkers. CA19-9 is demonstrated to have limited utility alone, and to perform 
poorly in patient control cohorts of both healthy and benign individuals. 
Multi-biomarker panels containing CA19-9 produce the best diagnostic performance 
overall.

Â© 2022 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0190
PMCID: PMC10035398
PMID: 36969742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.D. Meade reports grants from Science 
Foundation Ireland (Grant 13/RC/2106_P2) during the conduct of the study. No 
disclosures were reported by the other authors.