1. Ecancermedicalscience. 2022 Nov 23;16:1475. doi: 10.3332/ecancer.2022.1475. 
eCollection 2022.

Short-term survival of patients with advanced pancreatic cancer admitted to 
intensive care unit: a retrospective cohort study.

de Almeida MJ(1), Camandaroba MPG(1), Nassar AP Jr(2), de Jesus VHF(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, A.C. Camargo Cancer Center, Rua Prof. Antônio 
Prudente, 211, São Paulo, SP 01509-010, Brazil.
(2)Intensive Care Medicine Department, A.C. Camargo Cancer Center, Rua Prof. 
Antônio Prudente, 211, São Paulo, SP 01509-010, Brazil.
(3)https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4702-116X.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the outcomes of patients with advanced 
pancreatic cancer admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) due to medical 
complications. We designed a study to evaluate their short-term (30-day) 
survival, predictors of short-term survival and chances of additional 
chemotherapy.
METHODS: We reviewed all patients with advanced (stage III or IV) pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma admitted to an ICU in a dedicated Brazilian cancer centre from 
2009 to 2018 due to medical reasons. We fitted multivariate regression models to 
identify predictors of 30-day survival and additional systemic chemotherapy.
RESULTS: The study population consisted of 171 patients. Ninety-four patients 
(55.0%) had Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 2-4 and 
146 (85.4%) had metastatic disease. Most patients (N = 75; 43.9%) were admitted 
to the ICU during first-line treatment. Median overall survival was 32 days (95% 
confidence interval (95% CI): 20-49). Survival rate at 30 days was 50.6%. ECOG 
performance status 2-4 was the only variable associated with lower probability 
of survival at 30 days in multivariate analysis (odds ratio: 0.28; 95% CI: 
0.14-0.54; p < 0.001). Overall, 58 patients (33.9%) received additional 
chemotherapy and among all patients, 13.5% experienced clinical benefit from 
this treatment.
CONCLUSION: Patients with advanced pancreatic cancer admitted to the ICU for 
medical reasons have a dismal prognosis. Early palliative care and refined tools 
to establish those who would benefit from an ICU trial could help improve 
patients' care.

© the authors; licensee ecancermedicalscience.

DOI: 10.3332/ecancer.2022.1475
PMCID: PMC9934886
PMID: 36819828

Conflict of interest statement: None.