1. Pancreas. 2022 Oct 1;51(9):1133-1139. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002151.

Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma With Strong Expression of Interleukin-13 Receptor α2 
Shows a Poor Response to Gemcitabine-Based Chemotherapy.

Tomishima K(1), Fujisawa T(1), Fukumura Y(2), Ushio M(1), Fukuma T(1), Takahashi 
S(1), Takasaki Y(1), Suzuki A(1), Ito K(1), Ishii S(1), Yao T(2), Nagahara A(1), 
Isayama H(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Gastroenterology, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Juntendo University.
(2)Department of Human Pathology, Juntendo University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

OBJECTIVES: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with strong expression of 
interleukin-13 receptor α2 (IL-13Rα2) was associated with poor prognosis and 
gemcitabine resistance in an orthotopic mouse model. We evaluated the influence 
of IL-13Rα2 expression in the endoscopic ultrasound-fine needle aspiration 
(EUS-FNA) specimen.
METHODS: We included patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, as 
diagnosed by EUS-FNA, who received gemcitabine-based chemotherapy (G-CTX). Tumor 
expression of IL-13Rα2 was assessed by immunohistochemistry and classified using 
a three scale (negative, weak, or strong) in a blinded fashion. The effect of 
G-CTX was assessed by tumor reduction rate by computed tomography after 3 
months.
RESULTS: A total of 95 patients were enrolled, and 63 and 32 cases were 
determined with strong and weak/negative expression of IL-13Rα2. The 
IL-13Rα2-strong group showed significantly poorer progression-free and overall 
survival rates than weak/negative group (P = 0.0191 and P = 0.0062, 
respectively). Strong expression of IL-13Rα2 was associated with progression 
factor after 3 months of the first G-CTX (odds ratio, 13.72; P = 0.0143).
CONCLUSIONS: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with strong expression of IL-13Rα2 
in EUS-FNA specimens showed poor prognosis and poor response to G-CTX.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002151
PMID: 37078936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: H.I. is supported by a grant and speaker fee 
from the Taiho Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, and Yakult Honsha Company. The other 
authors declare no conflict of interest.