1. Heliyon. 2022 Dec 17;9(1):e12378. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e12378. 
eCollection 2023 Jan.

Construction of a metabolism-related gene prognostic model to predict survival 
of pancreatic cancer patients.

Huang H(1)(2), Zhou S(2), Zhao X(2), Wang S(2), Yu H(3), Lan L(2), Li L(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Laboratory Medicine and Life Sciences, Wenzhou Medical University, 
University Town, Chashan District, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, 325000, PR China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Diagnosis and Treatment of Severe Hepato-Pancreatic 
Diseases of Zhejiang Province, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Fanhai West Road, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, 325000, PR China.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou 
Medical University, Fanhai West Road, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, 325000, PR 
China.
(4)The general surgery department of second affiliated hospital of Wenzhou 
medical university, No. 109, College West Road, Wenzhou, Zhejiang Province, 
325002, Zhejiang, PR China.

Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most fatal malignant tumors, and is 
commonly diagnosed at an advanced stage with no effective therapy. 
Metabolism-related genes (MRGs) and immune-related genes (IRGs) play 
considerable roles in the tumor microenvironment. Therefore, an effective 
prediction model based on MRGs and IRGs could aid in the prognosis of PC. In 
this study, differential expression analysis was performed to gain 25 
intersectional genes from 857 differentially expressed MRGs (DEMRGs), and 1353 
differentially expressed IRGs, from The Cancer Genome Atlas database of PC. Cox 
and Lasso regression were applied and a five-DEMRGs prognostic model 
constructed. Survival analysis, ROC values, risk curve and validation analysis 
showed that the model could independently predict PC prognosis. In addition, the 
correlation analysis suggested that the five-DEMRGs prognostic model could 
reflect the status of the immune microenvironment, including Tregs, M1 
macrophages and Mast cell resting. Therefore, our study provides new underlying 
predictive biomarkers and associated immunotherapy targets.

Â© 2022 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e12378
PMCID: PMC9938416
PMID: 36820187

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.