1. Ann Surg Open. 2022 Aug 17;3(3):e196. doi: 10.1097/AS9.0000000000000196. 
eCollection 2022 Sep.

Shared Decision-Making in Pancreatic Surgery.

Trobaugh J(1), Fuqua W(1), Folkert K(2), Khalil S(2), Shebrain S(2), Munene 
G(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Psychology, Behavioral Medicine Laboratory, Western 
Michigan University.
(2)Department of Surgery, Western Michigan University Homer Stryker MD School of 
Medicine.
(3)Western Michigan Cancer Center, Division of Surgical Oncology, Kalamazoo, MI.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to determine the factors influencing 
pancreatic surgery patients' perceptions of the shared decision-making process 
(SDM).
BACKGROUND: Decision-making in pancreatic surgery is complicated by the risk of 
morbidity and mortality and risk of early recurrence of disease. Improvement in 
SDM has the potential to improve the receipt of goal- and value-concordant care.
METHODS: This cross-sectional survey included patients who underwent pancreatic 
surgery. The following components were studied in relation to SDM: modified 
satisfaction with decision scale (SWD), modified decisional regret scale (DRS), 
quality of physician and patient interaction, and the impact of quality of life 
(FACT-Hep). Correlations were computed using Pearson's correlation score and a 
regression model.
RESULTS: The survey completion rate was 72.2% (of 40/55) and the majority 
(72.5%) of patients underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy. There were significant 
positive relationships between the SDM measure and (DRS, SWD; r = 0.70, P < 
0.001) and responses to questions regarding how well the patient's actual 
recovery matched their expectations before treatment (r = 0.62, P < 0.001). The 
quality of the physician-patient relationship correlated with how well recovery 
matched expectations (r = 0.53, P = 0.002). SDM measure scores were significant 
predictors of the decision evaluation measure (R2(adj) = 0.48, P < 0.001), 
FACT-Hep (R2(adj) = 0.15, P < 0.001), and recovery expectations measure (R2(adj) 
= 0.37, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Improved SDM in pancreatic surgery is associated with more 
realistic recovery expectations, decreased decisional regret, and improved 
quality of life.

Copyright Â© 2022 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/AS9.0000000000000196
PMCID: PMC10431427
PMID: 37601151