1. Pancreas. 2022 Nov-Dec 01;51(10):1388-1397. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002186.

Preoperative Rapid Weight Loss as a Prognostic Predictor After Surgical 
Resection for Pancreatic Cancer.

Nishikawa M, Yamamoto J(1), Einama T(2), Hoshikawa M(1), Iwasaki T(2), Nakazawa 
A(2), Takihara Y(2), Tsunenari T(2), Kishi Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Ibaraki Prefectural Central Hospital, 
Kasama City, Japan.
(2)From the Department of Surgery, National Defense Medical College Hospital, 
Tokorozawa.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is to evaluate the influence of cachexia at the 
time of diagnosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) on prognosis in 
patients undergoing surgical resection.
METHODS: Patients with data on preoperative body weight (BW) change followed by 
surgical resection during 2008-2017 were selected. Large BW loss was defined as 
weight loss >5% or >2% in individuals with body mass index less than 20 kg/m2 
within 1 year preoperatively. Influence of large BW loss, ΔBW defined as 
preoperative BW change (%) per month, prognostic nutrition index, and indices of 
sarcopenia.
RESULTS: We evaluated 165 patients with PDAC. Preoperatively, 78 patients were 
categorized as having large BW loss. ΔBW was ≤ -1.34% per month (rapid) and > 
-1.34% per month (slow) in 95 and 70 patients, respectively. The median 
postoperative overall survival of rapid and slow ΔBW groups was 1.4 and 4.4 
years, respectively (P < 0.001). In multivariate analyses rapid ΔBW (hazard 
ratio [HR], 3.88); intraoperative blood loss ≥430 mL (HR, 1.89); tumor size ≥2.9 
cm (HR, 1.74); and R1/2 resection (HR, 1.77) were independent predictors of 
worse survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative rapid BW loss ≥1.34% per month was an independent 
predictor of worse survival of patients with PDAC.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002186
PMID: 37099784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.