1. Pancreas. 2022 Oct 1;51(9):1258-1262. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002150.

Exceptional Response of Pancreatic Acinar Cell Carcinoma and Bile Duct Cancer to 
Platinum-Based Chemotherapy in a Family With a Germline BRCA2 Variant.

Sunami T, Yamada A, Kondo T, Kanai M(1), Nagai K(2), Uchida Y(2), Yokode M(3), 
Matsumori T(3), Uza N(3), Murakami H(4), Yamada T(4), Muto M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Kyoto University Hospital.
(2)Division of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery and Transplantation, Department 
of Surgery.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto University.
(4)Clinical Genetics Unit, Kyoto University Hospital, Kyoto, Japan.

Pancreatic cancer and its rare subtype, acinar cell carcinoma (PACC), frequently 
harbor germline and/or somatic variants in homologous recombinant genes, 
including BRCA2. Individuals possessing germline pathogenic BRCA2 variants are 
known to have a higher risk of developing various cancers, including breast, 
ovarian, pancreatic, and bile duct cancers (BDCs). It has been reported that 
tumors positive for BRCA1/2 variants are sensitive to platinum-based agents. 
Thus, BRCA1/2 germline testing and comprehensive genomic profiling are 
recommended to identify genetic susceptibility and to indicate optimal targeted 
therapy. Here, we report familial occurrence of PACC and BDC associated with 
BRCA2; both tumors responded exceptionally well to platinum-based chemotherapy. 
A 37-year-old man was diagnosed with unresectable PACC with a germline BRCA2 
variant. He was treated with oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy and conversion 
surgery, and remains alive without tumor recurrence after more than 36 months. 
His father also possessed the identical germline BRCA2 variant and was diagnosed 
with extrahepatic BDC with lymph node metastases. The tumors showed marked 
shrinkage upon treatment with cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. Our cases 
underscore the importance of comprehensive genomic profiling and genetic testing 
for BRCA2 to ensure optimal therapeutic options for PACC as well as to identify 
high-risk individuals with various cancers in the family.

Copyright Â© 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0000000000002150
PMID: 37078954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.