1. Turk J Biol. 2022 Jul 18;46(5):342-360. doi: 10.55730/1300-0152.2622. 
eCollection 2022.

Palbociclib suppresses the cancer stem cell properties and cell proliferation 
through increased levels of miR-506 or miR-150 in Panc-1 and MiaPaCa-2 cells.

Rencüzoğullari Ö(1), Arisan ED(2).

Author information:
(1)İstanbul Kültür University, Science and Literature Faculty, Department of 
Molecular Biology and Genetics, İstanbul, Turkey.
(2)Institute of Biotechnology, Gebze Technical University, Gebze, Turkey.

The prognostic characteristics of pancreatic cancer (PC) are determined by the 
contributing factors from the tumor microenvironment. Leptin is a critical 
oncogenic factor released by adipocytes as an adipokine into the tumor 
microenvironment, where it promotes tumor development by activating cancer stem 
cell (CSC) molecular regulators Notch, Hedgehog, and Wnt/β-catenin signaling. 
One of the downstream targets of these pathways is CDK4/6 and cyclin D which is 
controlled by P16 INK4A that is highly mutated in PC. Therefore, the purpose of 
this study was to determine the effect of a CDK4/6 inhibitor, palbociclib, on 
Leptin-induced PC cells and to target the Notch, Hedgehog, and Wnt/β-catenin 
signaling pathways via miR-150, miR-506, and miR-208 modulation. Leptin 
treatment increased the ability of Panc-1, MiaPaCa-2, and Capan-2 cells to 
proliferate and decreased the effect of palbociclib. Additionally, tumorspheres 
were generated from Leptin-treated (Leptin+) and Leptin-untreated (Leptin-) 
Panc-1 and MiaPaCa-2 cells and transfected with miR-506, miR-150 
(tumorsuppressor miRNAs), or anti-miR-208 (oncomiR), followed by palbociclib 
treatment. Forced expression of miR-506 or miR-150 significantly increased the 
susceptibility of Leptin+ cells to palbociclib treatment by inhibiting colony 
and tumor spheroid formation, and CD44 expression in Panc-1 and MiaPaCa-2 cells. 
Additionally, the increased miR-150 expression is more effective at inhibiting 
N-cadherin, β-catenin, p-GSK3β, Notch, and Wnt5a/b expression in Leptin-/+ 
Panc-1 and MiaPaCa-2 cells. As a result, palbociclib suppressed the CSC profile 
induced by leptin treatment, inhibiting both tumorsphere forms and 
leptin-targeted signaling pathways, thereby disabling the Panc-1 and MiaPaCa-2 
cells' resistance mechanism. Increased expression of miR-506 or miR-150 and 
inhibition of miR-208 enhanced sensitivity of Panc-1 and MiaPaCa-2 Leptin-/+ 
cells to palbociclib treatment. As a result, this study proved that combining 
inhibitors of CSC molecular regulators with palbociclib improves the success 
rate of inhibition of PC cell proliferation.

© TÜBİTAK.

DOI: 10.55730/1300-0152.2622
PMCID: PMC10387936
PMID: 37529006

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.