1. Clin Endosc. 2023 May;56(3):353-366. doi: 10.5946/ce.2022.021. Epub 2022 Nov
16.

Pancreatic duct lavage cytology combined with a cell-block method for patients 
with possible pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas, including pancreatic carcinoma 
in situ.

Kusunose H(1), Koshita S(1), Kanno Y(1), Ogawa T(1), Sakai T(1), Yonamine K(1), 
Miyamoto K(1), Kozakai F(1), Anan H(1), Endo K(1)(2), Okano H(1), Oikawa M(3), 
Tsuchiya T(3), Sawai T(4), Noda Y(1)(4), Ito K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Sendai City Medical Center, Sendai, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Yokohama City University Medical Center, 
Yokohama, Japan.
(3)Department of Surgery, Sendai City Medical Center, Sendai, Japan.
(4)Department of Pathology, Sendai City Medical Center, Sendai, Japan.

Comment in
    Clin Endosc. 2023 May;56(3):313-314. doi: 10.5946/ce.2023.029.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: This study aimed to clarify the efficacy and safety of 
pancreatic duct lavage cytology combined with a cell-block method (PLC-CB) for 
possible pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDACs).
METHODS: This study included 41 patients with suspected PDACs who underwent 
PLC-CB mainly because they were unfit for undergoing endoscopic 
ultrasonography-guided fine needle aspiration. A 6-Fr double lumen catheter was 
mainly used to perform PLC-CB. Final diagnoses were obtained from the findings 
of resected specimens or clinical outcomes during surveillance after PLC-CB.
RESULTS: Histocytological evaluations using PLC-CB were performed in 87.8% 
(36/41) of the patients. For 31 of the 36 patients, final diagnoses (invasive 
PDAC, 12; pancreatic carcinoma in situ, 5; benignancy, 14) were made, and the 
remaining five patients were excluded due to lack of surveillance periods after 
PLC-CB. For 31 patients, the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of PLC-CB 
for detecting malignancy were 94.1%, 100%, and 96.8%, respectively. In addition, 
they were 87.5%, 100%, and 94.1%, respectively, in 17 patients without 
pancreatic masses detectable using endoscopic ultrasonography. Four patients 
developed postprocedural pancreatitis, which improved with conservative therapy.
CONCLUSION: PLC-CB has an excellent ability to detect malignancies in patients 
with possible PDACs, including pancreatic carcinoma in situ.

DOI: 10.5946/ce.2022.021
PMCID: PMC10244143
PMID: 37259244

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors have no 
potential conflicts of interest.