1. Oncol Res. 2023 Feb 3;30(5):211-219. doi: 10.32604/or.2022.026913. eCollection
 2022.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors as a novel therapeutic approach for 
pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas.

Manta A(1), Kazanas S(2), Karamaroudis S(3), Gogas H(2), Ziogas DC(2).

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Unit, Second Department of Internal Medicine Propaedeutic & 
Research Institute, Medical School, National and Kapodistrian University of 
Athens, Attikon University Hospital, Athens, 12461, Greece.
(2)First Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, National and 
Kapodistrian University of Athens, Laikon General Hospital, Athens, 11527, 
Greece.
(3)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, General Hospital of Elefsina 
Thriassio, Elefsina, 19600, Greece.

Epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and histone modifications (e.g., 
acetylation and deacetylation), are strongly implicated in the carcinogenesis of 
various malignancies. During transcription, the expression and functionality of 
coding gene products are altered following the histone acetylation and 
deacetylation. These processes are regulated by histone acetyltransferases 
(HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs), respectively. HDAC inhibitors (HDACis) 
have been developed as promising therapeutic agents, to limit exposure to 
traditional and toxic chemotherapies and offer more alternatives for some 
specific malignant diseases with limited options. Mechanistically, these agents 
affect many intracellular pathways, including cell cycle arrest, apoptosis and 
differentiation, and their mechanism of action mainly depends on the type of 
cancer. Currently, five HDACis have been approved for the treatment of several 
hematological malignancies (e.g., T-cell lymphoma subtypes and multiple 
myeloma); while, many of them are tested for further therapeutic indications in 
solid tumors (e.g., colorectal, thyroid, breast, lung and pancreatic cancer). 
Herein, we review the literature and gather all available evidence, from in 
vitro and in vivo data to clinical trial results, that recognizes the antitumor 
activity of HDACis on pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas; and supports their 
clinical implementation in the treatment of these rare neuroendocrine tumors at 
metastatic setting.

Â© 2022 Manta et al.

DOI: 10.32604/or.2022.026913
PMCID: PMC10207982
PMID: 37305348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Helen Gogas has received grants and personal 
fees by Roche, BMS, MSD, Novartis and personal fees by Amgen and Pierre Fabre, 
outside the submitted work. All other authors declare no conflict of interest.