1. Semin Oncol. 2022 Dec;49(6):476-481. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2023.01.007.
Epub  2023 Feb 2.

Synchronous or metachronous presentation of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor 
versus secondary lesion to pancreas in patients affected by renal cell 
carcinoma. Systematic review.

Persano I(1), Parlagreco E(2), La Salvia A(3), Audisio M(2), Volante M(2), 
Buttigliero C(2), Scagliotti GV(2), Brizzi MP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital San Luigi Gonzaga, University of 
Turin, Orbassano, Italy. Electronic address: irene.persano@unito.it.
(2)Department of Oncology, University Hospital San Luigi Gonzaga, University of 
Turin, Orbassano, Italy.
(3)National Center for Drug Research and Evaluation, National Institute of 
Health (ISS), Rome, Italy.

The simultaneous or metachronous occurrence of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor 
(panNET) and renal cell carcinoma (RCC) may represent a rare coincidence or a 
manifestation of von Hippel-Lindau disease (VHL). These two malignancies share 
both radiological and cytopathological features, making the differential 
diagnosis very challenging. In this review, we collected all cases of concurrent 
diagnosis of localized panNET and RCC, with or without VHL, as reported in the 
literature to date. We aimed to provide an insight into the differential 
diagnosis between panNET and RCC pancreatic metastasis with a focus on the 
optimal therapeutic algorithm depending on the diagnosis. We performed 
literature research in PubMed library databases for articles about coexisting 
panNET and RCC published from 2001 to 2018. We selected nine articles with a 
total of 13 patients, including one treated at our institution. Patients' median 
age was 49 years and eight out of 13 patients were women. VHL was diagnosed in 
nine cases. Most patients underwent radical nephrectomy for RCC (9/13) and a 
clear cell renal carcinoma variant was identified in six cases. The diagnosis of 
panNET was synchronous with RCC detection in nine cases and metachronous in four 
cases. The diameter of the pancreatic lesion was >2 cm in six cases. In two 
cases the panNET was misdiagnosed as metastatic RCC by radiological tests. 
Somatostatin receptor scanning was performed only in our patient (Octreoscan) 
showing intense uptake in the pancreatic mass. Endoscopic ultrasound fine needle 
aspiration of the pancreatic lesion was performed in four patients: in two cases 
the panNET was confused with metastatic RCC by cytological analysis. Most 
patients underwent pancreatic surgery (10/13) without histological confirmation. 
Clear cell panNET was recognized in six cases, while mixed neuroendocrine 
non-neuroendocrine neoplasm was diagnosed in one patient. Immunohistochemistry 
(IHC) staining showed positivity to typical neuroendocrine markers (chromogranin 
A and synaptophysin) in all reported tested cases (8/8). Three patients 
underwent systemic treatment: two patients received sunitinib and one patient 
interleukin-2 (IL-2). Other neoplasms were observed in seven patients, of whom 
six were affected by VHL syndrome. When neoplastic lesions are recognized in 
both the kidney and pancreas, panNET and RCC pancreatic metastasis are often 
misdiagnosed due to similar radiological and cytopathological features. An 
accurate differential diagnosis is crucial and IHC plays a central role in 
distinguishing the two entities. The therapeutic algorithm may change depending 
on the diagnosis: while pancreatic RCC metastases benefit from resection, in 
panNETs and VHL the indication for surgery must be carefully evaluated.

Copyright Â© 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2023.01.007
PMID: 36759234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]