1. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2022 Aug 31;68(8):64-68. doi: 
10.14715/cmb/2022.68.8.11.

GSTM1 and GSTT1 Gene Polymorphisms with Gallbladder Carcinoma.

Fang J(1), Fang F(1), Huang J(1), Zhang X(1), Wang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Zhe Jiang Jinhua Guangfu 
Tumor Hospital, Jinhua, 321111, Zhejiang Province, China. 
wanghongjuan2022@yandex.com.

In order to explore the relationship between GSTM1 and GSTT1 gene polymorphisms 
and gallbladder cancer, so as to find a better treatment and prevention of 
gallbladder cancer and improve the treatment effect. In this paper, 247 patients 
with gallbladder cancer were selected for the experiment, including 187 male 
patients and 60 female patients. The total number of patients was randomly 
divided into two groups, namely the case group and the control group. The 
patients in normal condition and after treatment of tumor tissue and adjacent 
non-tumor tissue gene detection, and then through the logistic regression model 
to analyze the data. After the experiment, we found that the frequency ratio of 
GSTM1 and GSTT1 in gallbladder cancer patients before treatment was 57.33% and 
52.37%, which was very high, which was very disadvantageous in gene detection. 
However, after treatment, the frequency of deletion of the two genes was 45.73% 
and 51.02%, which was significantly reduced. The reduced gene ratio is very 
beneficial to the observation of gallbladder cancer. Therefore, the surgical 
treatment of gallbladder cancer before the first drug after gene testing, in the 
understanding of various principles, will have twice the result with half the 
effort.

DOI: 10.14715/cmb/2022.68.8.11
PMID: 36800835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]