1. Cancer Res Commun. 2022 Nov 11;2(11):1418-1425. doi: 
10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0343. eCollection 2022 Nov.

Cell-free DNA Predicts Prolonged Response to Multi-agent Chemotherapy in 
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma.

Christenson ES(1), Lim SJ(1), Durham J(1), De Jesus-Acosta A(1), Bever K(1), 
Laheru D(1), Ryan A(1), Agarwal P(1), Scharpf RB(1), Le DT(#)(1), Wang H(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Bloomberg-Kimmel Institute, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, and 
The Skip Viragh Center for Pancreatic Cancer Research and Clinical Care, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(#)Contributed equally

The treatment of metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is 
frequently characterized by significant toxicity and rapid development of 
resistance to current approved therapies. More reliable biomarkers of response 
are needed to guide clinical decision making. We evaluated cell-free DNA (cfDNA) 
using a tumor-agnostic platform and traditional biomarkers (CEA and CA19-9) 
levels in 12 patients treated at Johns Hopkins University on NCT02324543 "Study 
of Gemcitabine/Nab-Paclitaxel/Xeloda (GAX) in Combination With Cisplatin and 
Irinotecan in Subjects With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer." The pretreatment 
values, levels after 2 months of treatment, and change in biomarker levels with 
treatment were compared with clinical outcomes to determine their predictive 
value. The variant allele frequency (VAF) of KRAS and TP53 mutations in cfDNA 
after 2 months of treatment was predictive of progression-free survival (PFS) 
and overall survival (OS). In particular, patients with a lower-than-average 
KRAS VAF after 2 months of treatment had a substantially longer PFS than 
patients with higher posttreatment KRAS VAF (20.96 vs. 4.39 months). Changes in 
CEA and CA19-9 after 2 months of treatment were also good predictors of PFS. 
Comparison via concordance index demonstrated KRAS or TP53 VAF after 2 months of 
treatment to be better predictors of PFS and OS than CA19-9 or CEA. This pilot 
study requires validation but suggests cfDNA measurement is a useful adjunct to 
traditional protein biomarkers and imaging evaluation and could distinguish 
between patients who are likely to achieve prolonged responses versus those that 
will have early progression and may benefit from a change in treatment approach.
SIGNIFICANCE: We report on the association of cfDNA with response durability for 
patients undergoing treatment with a novel metronomic chemotherapy regimen 
(gemcitabine, nab-paclitaxel, capecitabine, cisplatin, irinotecan; GAX-CI) for 
metastatic PDAC. This investigation offers encouraging evidence that cfDNA may 
prove to be a valuable diagnostic tool to guide clinical management.

Â© 2022 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2767-9764.CRC-22-0343
PMCID: PMC10035498
PMID: 36970054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E.S. Christenson reports grants from Swim Across 
America during the conduct of the study; personal fees from OncLive outside the 
submitted work; and Haystack Oncology - developing a research collaboration to 
look at the use of cfDNA to detected minimal residual disease in locally 
advanced rectal cancer; Natera - developing a research collaboration to look at 
the use of cfDNA to monitor clonal dynamics during treatment of colorectal 
cancer. K. Bever reports grants from Merck and Bristol Myers Squibb outside the 
submitted work. R.B. Scharpf reports personal fees and other from Delfi 
Diagnostics outside the submitted work. D.T. Le reports grants and personal fees 
from BMS, Merck, grants from Abbvie, Nouscom; personal fees from Jansenn and G1 
Therapeutics outside the submitted work. H. Wang reports grants from NIH during 
the conduct of the study. No disclosures were reported by the other authors.