1. Acta Biochim Biophys Sin (Shanghai). 2022 Dec 25;54(12):1811-1821. doi: 
10.3724/abbs.2022183.

DUSP9 alleviates hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury by restraining both 
mitogen-activated protein kinase and IKK in an apoptosis signal-regulating 
kinase 1-dependent manner.

Li Z(1), Huang Z(2), Luo Y(3), Yang H(3), Yang M(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Basic Medicine, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, 
China.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary Pancreatic Tumor Center, Chongqing University 
Cancer Hospital, Chongqing 400030, China.
(3)The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 
400016.

Erratum in
    Acta Biochim Biophys Sin (Shanghai). 2023 Nov 22;55(12):2013. doi: 
10.3724/abbs.2023265.

Hepatic ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury occurs frequently in various liver 
operations and diseases, but its effective treatment remains inadequate because 
the key switch that leads to hepatic explosive inflammation has not been well 
disclosed. Dual specificity phosphatase 9 (DUSP9) is widely involved in the 
innate immune response of solid organs and is sometimes regulated by ubiquitin. 
In the present study, we find that DUSP9 is reduced in mouse hepatic I/R injury. 
DUSP9 enrichment attenuates hepatic inflammation both in vivo and in vitro as 
revealed by western blot analysis and qRT-PCR. In contrast, DUSP9 depletion 
leads to more severe I/R injury. Mechanistically, DUSP9 inhibits the 
phosphorylation of apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) by directly 
binding to ASK1, thereby decreasing tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated 
factor 6 (TRAF6), K63 ubiquitin and the phosphorylation of p38/JNK1 instead of 
ERK1. The present study documents a novel role of DUSP9 in hepatic I/R injury 
and implies the potential of targeting the DUSP9/ASK1 axis towards 
mitogen-activated protein kinase and TRAF6/inhibitor of ÎºB kinase pathways.

DOI: 10.3724/abbs.2022183
PMCID: PMC10157530
PMID: 36789693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.