1. Am Surg. 2023 Nov;89(11):4944-4948. doi: 10.1177/00031348221135787. Epub 2022 
Nov 3.

Liver Venous Deprivation for Rapid Liver Hypertrophy Before Major Hepatectomy: A 
Case Report.

John N(1), Montorfano L(1), Nagarajan A(2), Simpfendorfer CH(1), Wexner SD(3), 
Amin P(4), Roy M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Section of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic 
Surgery, Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland Clinic Florida, Weston, FL, USA.
(2)Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Cleveland Clinic Florida, 
Weston, FL, USA.
(3)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic Florida, Weston, FL, USA.
(4)Department of Imaging, Section of Interventional Radiology, Cleveland Clinic 
Florida, Weston, FL, USA.

Liver venous deprivation (LVD) is an emerging, minimally invasive strategy to 
induce rapid liver hypertrophy of the future liver remnant (FLR) before a major 
hepatectomy. LVD (aka "double vein embolization") entails same-session 
percutaneous embolization of the portal and hepatic veins of the planned liver 
resection. This report discusses LVD's utilization and technical challenges in 
managing a 49-year-old male with recurrent multifocal colorectal liver 
metastases (CRLM). The patient initially underwent neoadjuvant FOLFOX 
chemotherapy followed by a simultaneous laparoscopic sigmoid colectomy and liver 
surgery (microwave ablation of segment V and wedge resections of segment one and 
IVb), followed by completion of chemotherapy. The patient had an R0 resection 
with clear colon and liver surgical margins. Nine months after the initial 
surgery, the patient had a rise in tumor markers, and surveillance imaging 
demonstrated recurrence of liver metastases in segments I and V. LVD was 
performed by interventional radiology, which led to a 28% increase in FLR 
(segments II, III, and IV); initially measuring 464 cm3 before LVD and measuring 
594 cm3 on post-procedure day 21. The patient underwent right hemi-hepatectomy 
and caudate resection on post-procedure day 29. The patient did not have any 
complications and was discharged on postoperative day 6. The patient remains 
disease-free with no evidence of recurrence at 12 months follow-up.

DOI: 10.1177/00031348221135787
PMID: 38050321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting InterestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.