1. Adv Radiat Oncol. 2023 Jul 9;9(1):101314. doi: 10.1016/j.adro.2023.101314. 
eCollection 2024 Jan.

Initial Observation of Contrast Profiles for 2-Dimensional and 3-Dimensional 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging Sequences in Magnetic Resonance-Guided Radiation 
Therapy for Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer.

Gill GS(1), Hunt B(1), Zhang R(1), Williams BB(1), Zaki BI(1).

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth Cancer Center, One Medical Center Drive, Lebanon, New Hampshire.

PURPOSE: In our experience treating locally advanced pancreatic cancer with 
magnetic resonance-guided radiation therapy (MRgRT), the true-fast imaging with 
steady-state free precession sequences used to generate both the real-time 
2-dimensional (2D) magnetic resonance images (MRI; 2D cine) and the pretreatment 
high-resolution 3-dimensional (3D) MRI impart differing intensities for relevant 
structures between the 2 scans. Since these variations can confound target 
tracking selection, we propose that an understanding of the differing contrast 
profiles could improve selection of tracking structures.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We retrospectively reviewed both 2D cine and 3D MRI 
images for 20 patients with pancreatic cancer treated with MRgRT. At simulation, 
an appropriate tracking target was identified and contoured on a single 3-mm 
sagittal slice of the 3D MRI. This sagittal slice was directly compared with the 
coregistered 7-mm 2D cine to identify structures with notable discrepancies in 
signal intensity. The 3D MRI was then explored in additional planes to confirm 
structure identities. For quantitative verification of the clinically observed 
differences, the pixel intensity distributions of 2D cine and 3D MRI digital 
imaging and communications in medicine data sets were statistically compared.
RESULTS: In all patients reviewed, arteries (aorta, celiac, superior mesenteric 
artery, hepatic artery) appeared mildly hyperintense on both scans. However, 
veins (portal vein, superior mesenteric vein) appeared hyperintense on 2D cine 
but isointense on 3D MRI. Biliary structures appeared mildly hyperintense on 2D 
cine but starkly hyperintense on 3D MRI. The pixel intensity distributions 
extracted from 2D cine and 3D MRI images were confirmed to differ significantly 
(2 sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov test; test statistic, 0.40; P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: There are significant variations in image intensity between the 
immediate pretreatment 2D cine compared with the initial planning 3D MRI. 
Understanding variations of image intensity between the different MRI sequences 
used in MRgRT is valuable to radiation oncologists and may lead to improved 
target tracking and optimized treatment delivery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adro.2023.101314
PMCID: PMC10801635
PMID: 38260228

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.