1. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2023 Dec 20;69(14):121-125. doi: 
10.14715/cmb/2023.69.14.19.

Detection of circulating tumor cells in patients with pancreatic cancer by novel 
nano microfluidic chips and comprehensive nursing intervention.

Wang G(1), Luo L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Operating Room, Chongqing Liangjiang New Area People's 
Hospital, Chongqing, 401121, China. ruxiaqiang836@163.com.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Chongqing Liangjiang New Area People's 
Hospital, Chongqing, 401121, China. ruxiaqiang836@163.com.

It was to explore the detection efficiency of novel nano microfluidic chips on 
circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in pancreatic cancer (PC) patients and the effect 
of comprehensive nursing intervention on the life indicators of patients after 
PC surgery. PC, benign pancreas, and healthy volunteers were enrolled. The 
number and positive rate of CTCs in the subjects, the relationship between the 
number of CTCs in PC patients and clinical data, the recurrence rate, and the 
life indicators of patients after intervention were sorted out and analyzed. The 
positive rate of CTCs was 96.67% in PC group (29/30), 16.67% in benign pancreas 
group (5/30), and 0% in healthy controls. The positive CTCs in PC patients were 
correlated with vascular invasion (P<0.05). The recurrence rate after PC 
resection was 56.67% (17/30). The positive detection rate of nano microfluidic 
chip was 30/30 (100%), which was higher than against CellSeach 7/30 (23.33%), 
P<0.05. The physiological function score of intervention group (93.67±1.48) was 
higher as against controls (60.45±2.03), P<0.05. The social function score of 
intervention group (91.26±0.44) was higher as against controls (54.92±2.98), 
P<0.05. The novel nano microfluidic chip has high sensitivity and specificity 
for the detection of CTCs in PC patients. Postoperative comprehensive nursing 
intervention can improve the quality of life (QoL) and functional status of PC 
patients.

DOI: 10.14715/cmb/2023.69.14.19
PMID: 38279462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]