1. Pol Przegl Chir. 2023 Oct 12;96(0):6-12. doi: 10.5604/01.3001.0053.9292.

Splenectomy and tumor size are risk factors for serious perioperative morbidity 
of laparoscopic distal pancreatectomies.

Wysocki M(1), Borys M(1), Gałązka K(2), Stranek M(1), Budzyński A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery and Surgical Oncology, Ludwik Rydygier Memorial 
Hospital, Cracow, Poland.
(2)Department of Pathomorphology, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 
Cracow, Poland.

&lt;b&gt;&lt;br&gt;Introduction:&lt;/b&gt; The determinants influencing the risk 
for complications of laparoscopic distal pancreatectomies (LDP) are not yet 
fully defined, thus we aimed to determine risk factors for serious perioperative 
morbidity after LDP with spleen preservation, LDP and radical antegrade modular 
pancreatosplenectomy for adenocarcinoma of the body and tail of the pancreas 
(RAMPS).&lt;/br&gt; &lt;b&gt;&lt;br&gt;Material and methods:&lt;/b&gt; 
Retrospective cohort study of consecutive patients that underwent LDP between 
January 2019 and December 2022. The study group included cases of serious 
perioperative morbidity (III-V grades in Clavien-Dindo classification) during a 
30-day period after operation. The control group consisted of patients without 
serious perioperative morbidity. As many as 142 patients were included in the 
study.&lt;/br&gt; &lt;b&gt;&lt;br&gt;Results:&lt;/b&gt; Serious perioperative 
morbidity was found in 33 (23.24%) operated patients, while mortality in 3 cases 
(2.11%). Serious perioperative morbidity after LDP with spleen preservation was 
found in 9/68 (13.2%) patients (27.3% of the perioperative morbidity group). 
Thirteen out of 51 patients, i.e. 25.5%, after LDP with splenectomy were 
included in the perioperative morbidity group (39.4%). Serious perioperative 
morbidity after RAMPS was found in 11/23 (47.8%) patients (33.3% of the 
perioperative morbidity group). In multivariate logistic regression, the need 
for splenectomy during pancreatectomy (OR 3.66, 95%CI 1.20-11.18) and tumor 
above 28 millimeters in size (OR 3.01, 95%CI 1.19-9.59) were independent risk 
factors for serious perioperative morbidity.&lt;/br&gt; 
&lt;b&gt;&lt;br&gt;Conclusions:&lt;/b&gt; The need for splenectomy during 
laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy and tumor size above 28 millimeters were 
independent risk factors for serious perioperative morbidity after laparoscopic 
distal pancreatectomies.&lt;/br&gt.

DOI: 10.5604/01.3001.0053.9292
PMID: 38348977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]