1. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2023 Dec;50(13):1959-1961.

[Treatment Experience of Chemotherapy and Carbon-Ion Radiotherapy followed by 
Curative Conversion Surgery for Initially Locally Advanced Unresectable 
Pancreatic Cancer after Distal Gastrectomy].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe H(1), Sugawara S, Takahashi R, Ashitomi Y, Kawashiro S, Sato H, Nemoto 
K, Kono M, Futakuchi M, Motoi F.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Yamagata University Graduate School of Medical Science.

BACKGROUND: Carbon-ion radiotherapy(CIRT)has an advantage over conventional 
radiotherapy by its dose distribution and biological effect for locally advanced 
unresectable pancreatic cancer(UR-PC). Conversion surgery(CS)might be attempted 
for UR-PC with favorable response by chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 67-year-old female who have a history of distal 
gastrectomy. CT scan revealed locally advanced UR-PC with invasion to celiac 
artery, 60 mm in size. Systemic chemotherapy with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel 
was continued for 15 months, showing decrease of tumor markers and radiological 
shrinkage of the tumor. The patient was referred to our hospital for surgical 
consultation. Since there was no metastasis in staging laparoscopy, CIRT with 
gemcitabine was administered for 3 weeks. After completion of CIRT, distal 
pancreatectomy with celiac axis resection and total remnant gastrectomy for 
direct invasion of the tumor was performed as CS, resulting R0 resection. Her 
postoperative course was uneventful with 17 days of hospital stay.
DISCUSSION: CS after CIRT was safely performed. Clinical trial of total 
neoadjuvant therapy with systemic chemotherapy, CIRT, followed by CS for locally 
advanced CIRT is ongoing in our hospital. CIRT could be an effective treatment 
in locally advanced UR-PC in the context of multi-modal treatment including CS.

PMID: 38303264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]