1. Front Oncol. 2024 Jan 4;13:1333839. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1333839.
eCollection  2023.

The importance of cancer-associated fibroblasts in targeted therapies and drug 
resistance in breast cancer.

Zheng J(1), Hao H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yangpu Hospital, School of Medicine, Tongji 
University, Shanghai, China.

Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) play a substantial role in the tumor 
microenvironment, exhibiting a strong association with the advancement of 
various types of cancer, including breast, pancreatic, and prostate cancer. CAFs 
represent the most abundant mesenchymal cell population in breast cancer. 
Through diverse mechanisms, including the release of cytokines and exosomes, 
CAFs contribute to the progression of breast cancer by influencing tumor energy 
metabolism, promoting angiogenesis, impairing immune cell function, and 
remodeling the extracellular matrix. Moreover, CAFs considerably impact the 
response to treatment in breast cancer. Consequently, the development of 
interventions targeting CAFs has emerged as a promising therapeutic approach in 
the management of breast cancer. This article provides an analysis of the role 
of CAFs in breast cancer, specifically in relation to diagnosis, treatment, drug 
resistance, and prognosis. The paper succinctly outlines the diverse mechanisms 
through which CAFs contribute to the malignant behavior of breast cancer cells, 
including proliferation, invasion, metastasis, and drug resistance. Furthermore, 
the article emphasizes the potential of CAFs as valuable tools for early 
diagnosis, targeted therapy, treatment resistance, and prognosis assessment in 
breast cancer, thereby offering novel approaches for targeted therapy and 
overcoming treatment resistance in this disease.

Copyright Â© 2024 Zheng and Hao.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1333839
PMCID: PMC10810416
PMID: 38273859

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.