1. Case Rep Med. 2023 Dec 26;2023:8274226. doi: 10.1155/2023/8274226. eCollection
 2023.

Rare Double Primary Malignancies: A Pancreatic Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor 
Mimicking as a Metastatic Lesion of Myoepithelial Carcinoma of Parotid Gland.

Marbun VMG(1), Jamtani I(2), Krisnuhoni E(3), Panigoro SS(4).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Indonesia, General Surgery Department, Cipto 
Mangunkusumo Hospital, Diponegoro Street #71, Senen, Central Jakarta, Indonesia.
(2)Consultant of Oncology Division of General Surgery Department Faculty of 
Medicine, Universitas Indonesia, General Surgery Department, Cipto Mangunkusumo 
Hospital, Diponegoro Street #71, Senen, Central Jakarta, Indonesia.
(3)Staff of Pathology Anatomy Department, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Indonesia, Pathology Anatomy Department, Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, Diponegoro 
Street #71, Senen, Central Jakarta, Indonesia.
(4)Staff of Digestive Division of General Surgery Department, Faculty of 
Medicine, Universitas Indonesia, General Surgery Department, Cipto Mangunkusumo 
Hospital, Diponegoro Street #71, Senen, Central Jakarta, Indonesia.

Pancreatic gastrointestinal stromal tumors (PGISTs) are exceptionally rare, 
accounting for <5% of extra-gastrointestinal stromal tumors (EGISTs) and <1% of 
malignant pancreatic neoplasms. We present a unique case of concurrent double 
primary malignancies in a 46-year-old female with a history of recurrent 
myoepithelial carcinoma of the parotid gland, managed through surgical resection 
and adjuvant therapy. She presented with an enlarging abdominal mass, initially 
suggestive of pancreatic metastasis. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed 
positive staining for smooth-muscle actin (SMA) and CD34 in both parotid and 
pancreatic tissues. Importantly, CD117 expression was confined to the pancreatic 
tissue, confirming the diagnosis of PGIST rather than metastasis. Subsequently, 
a splenic-sparing distal pancreatectomy was performed, followed by immediate 
imatinib therapy. This case underscores the potential for the coexistence of 
rare primary malignancies with unique histopathological characteristics and 
organ involvement. When encountering a newly developed lesion in a distant 
organ, surgeons must consider the possibility of metastasis to guide therapeutic 
decision-making. Early diagnosis and appropriate intervention are paramount, 
particularly in the case of PGIST, given its infrequent presentation and 
clinical complexities.

Copyright Â© 2023 Vania Myralda Giamour Marbun et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2023/8274226
PMCID: PMC11390198
PMID: 39263044

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.