1. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2023 Dec 20;69(14):161-165. doi: 
10.14715/cmb/2023.69.14.26.

RGC-32 facilitates pancreatic cancer via activating Wnt/β-catenin signaling.

He J(1), Yang G(2), Cao R(3), Zhu L(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Jiangxi 
Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China. 2415947438@qq.com.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Jiangxi 
Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China. 
13879167626@163.com.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Jiangxi 
Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China. 519805530@qq.com.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, the First Affiliated Hospital, Jiangxi 
Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China. 
zhuliang2016zl@163.com.

Longitudinal studies have indicated the facilitating effect of RGC-32 during 
diverse disease progression including pancreatic cancer, yet the systematic and 
detailed effect of RGC-32 during pancreatic cancer is largely unknowable. For 
this purpose, we took advantage of the pancreatic cancer cell line (BXPC3) with 
RGC-32 expression and then modulated its expression by lentivirus-mediated 
knockdown (shRGC-32) and overexpression (pcDNA-RGC-32). To verify the effect of 
Wnt/β-catenin signaling in RGC-32-based tumorigenicity, we added the agonist 
CT99021 to the shRGC-32 BXPC3 cell line and pancreatic cancer mouse model. The 
deficiency in cellular vitality (cell survival, apoptosis, cell cycle) and 
migration of BXPC3 were sharply rescued by shRGC-32 in vitro. Notably, the 
aforementioned phenotypes as well as the expression pattern of EMT-associated 
biomarkers of BXPC3 with shRGC-32 expression could largely rescued by the 
agonist of Wnt/β-catenin in vitro and in vivo. Our data indicated the 
facilitating effect of RGC-32 upon pancreatic cancer cell line and mouse model 
via activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling, which collectively suggested the 
feasibility of RGC-32 as a potent diagnostic and therapeutic target of 
pancreatic cancer in the future.

DOI: 10.14715/cmb/2023.69.14.26
PMID: 38279451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]