1. GE Port J Gastroenterol. 2023 Jul 12;31(1):1-13. doi: 10.1159/000530835. 
eCollection 2024 Feb.

Nutrition in Pancreatic Diseases: A Roadmap for the Gastroenterologist.

Cúrdia Gonçalves T(1)(2)(3), Capela TL(1)(2)(3), Cotter J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Department, Hospital da Senhora da Oliveira - Guimarães, 
Guimarães, Portugal.
(2)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Medicine, 
University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.
(3)ICVS/3B's, PT Government Associate Laboratory, Guimarães/Braga, Portugal.

While common pancreatic diseases, such as acute pancreatitis (AP), chronic 
pancreatitis (CP), and pancreatic cancer (PC), may greatly impact the normal 
pancreatic physiology and contribute to malnutrition, the adequate nutritional 
approach when those conditions are present significantly influences patients' 
prognosis. In patients with AP, the goals of nutritional care are to prevent 
malnutrition, correct a negative nitrogen balance, reduce inflammation, and 
improve outcomes such as local and systemic complications and mortality. 
Malnutrition in patients with CP is common but often a late manifestation of the 
disease, leading to decreased functional capacity and quality of life and 
increased risk of developing significant osteopathy, postoperative 
complications, hospitalization, and mortality. Cancer-related malnutrition is 
common in patients with PC, and it is now well recognized that early nutritional 
support can favorably impact survival, not only by increasing tolerance and 
response to disease treatments but also by improving quality of life and 
decreasing postoperative complications. The aim of this review was to emphasize 
the role of nutrition and to propose a systematic nutritional approach in 
patients with AP, CP, and PC.

Publisher: Se por um lado, doenças pancreáticas comuns, tais como pancreatite 
aguda (PA), pancreatite crónica (PC) e cancro pancreático (CP), podem ter um 
grande impacto na normal fisiologia pancreática e contribuir para desnutrição, 
por outro lado, uma abordagem nutricional adequada nos doentes com essas 
patologias pode influenciar significativamente o seu prognóstico. Em doentes com 
PA, os objetivos do suporte nutricional são a prevenção da desnutrição, a 
correção de um balanço negativo de nitrogénio, a redução da inflamação, e a 
evicção de outcomes desfavoráveis, como desenvolvimento de complicações locais 
ou sistémicas ou morte. A desnutrição é comum em doentes com PC, sendo 
frequentemente uma manifestação tardia da doença, da qual resulta uma diminuição 
da capacidade funcional e da qualidade de vida, bem como um aumento 
significativo do risco de doença óssea, complicações pós-operatórias, 
hospitalizações e morte. A desnutrição associada ao CP é também habitual e é 
atualmente reconhecido que um suporte nutricional precoce pode influenciar 
favoravelmente a sobrevida, não só por aumentar a tolerância e resposta aos 
tratamentos, mas também por melhorar a qualidade de vida e diminuir as 
complicações pós-operatórias. O objetivo da presente revisão é salientar o papel 
da nutrição e propor uma abordagem nutricional sistematizada nos doentes com PA, 
PC e CP.

© 2023 The Author(s).Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000530835
PMCID: PMC10836866
PMID: 38314032

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.