1. Research (Wash D C). 2023 Nov 28;6:0282. doi: 10.34133/research.0282. 
eCollection 2023.

Development and Characterization of Novel FAP-Targeted Theranostic Pairs: A 
Bench-to-Bedside Study.

Huang W(1), Pang Y(2), Liu Q(3), Liang C(1), An S(1), Wu Q(1), Zhang Y(1), Huang 
G(1), Chen H(2), Liu J(1), Wei W(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Institute of Clinical Nuclear Medicine, Renji 
Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200127, 
China.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Minnan PET Center, Xiamen Cancer Center, 
Xiamen Key Laboratory of Radiation Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Xiamen University, School of Medicine, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361003, China.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.

Fibroblast activation protein (FAP) is among the most popular targets in nuclear 
medicine imaging and cancer theranostics. Several small-molecule moieties 
(FAPI-04, FAPI-46, etc.) are used for developing FAP-targeted theranostic 
agents. Nonetheless, the circulation time of FAP inhibitors is relatively short, 
resulting in rapid clearance via kidneys, low tumor uptake, and associated 
unsatisfactory treatment efficacy. To address the existing drawbacks, we 
engineered 3 peptides named FD1, FD2, and FD3 with different circulation times 
through solid-phase peptide synthesis. All the 3 reported peptides bind to human 
and murine FAP with single-digit nanomolar affinity measured by surface plasmon 
resonance. The diagnostic and therapeutic potential of the agents labeled with 
68Ga and 177Lu was assessed in several tumor models exhibiting different levels 
of FAP expression. While radiolabeled FD1 was rapidly excreted from kidneys, 
radiolabeled FD2/FD3 have significantly prolonged circulation, increased tumor 
uptake, and decreased kidney accumulation. Our findings indicated that 
[68Ga]Ga-DOTA-FD1 positron emission tomography (PET) effectively detected FAP 
dynamics, whereas [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-FD2 and [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-FD3 exhibited remarkable 
therapeutic efficacy in FAP-overexpressing tumor models, including pancreatic 
cancer cell models characterized by abundant stroma. Moreover, a pilot 
translational investigation demonstrated that [68Ga]Ga-DOTA-FD1 had the 
capability to identify both primary and metastatic tumors with precision and 
distinction. In summary, we developed [68Ga]Ga-DOTA-FD1 for same-day PET imaging 
of FAP dynamics and [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-FD2 and [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-FD3 for effective 
radioligand therapy of FAP-overexpressing tumors.

Copyright © 2023 Wei Huang et al.

DOI: 10.34133/research.0282
PMCID: PMC11066877
PMID: 38706713

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: W.W., W.H., and J.L. are 
co-inventors on a provisional patent application encompassing the technology 
reported in the manuscript. W.W. is a consultant of Alpha Nuclide (Ningbo) 
Medical Technology Co., Ltd. All other authors declare that they have no 
competing interests.