1. Rozhl Chir. 2023;102(12):464-469. doi: 10.33699/PIS.2023.102.12.464-469.

Duodenal gastrinoma - case report.

[Article in English]

Adamová Z, Chrostek M, Dvořák T, Rada E.

INTRODUCTION: In our text, we want to highlight a rare diagnosis.
CASE REPORT: A 54-year-old obese, hypertensive male smoker had been investigated 
for intermittent abdominal pain for 12 years. The first gastroscopy for a 
bleeding ulcer was conducted in 2010. In the subsequent years, repeated 
gastroscopies revealed variable involvement from the esophagus to the duodenum. 
Capsule enteroscopy did not provide further specification of the diagnosis. The 
patient underwent colonoscopy and MRI enterography multiple times, with no 
unequivocal pathological findings. In May 2022, he was admitted to our 
department for abdominal pain and vomiting. This time, gastroscopy revealed 
multiple small ulcers in the duodenum and jejunum with clots causing a 
mechanical obstruction. Chromogranin A was elevated, raising suspicion of 
gastrinoma. However, somatostatin receptor-based imaging (Octreoscan) was 
negative. Only the 68Ga-DOTATOC PET (positron emission tomography with the 
radiopharmaceutical DOTA, labeled with gallium-68) identified a lesion in the 
subhepatic region, which had no correlation on CT. We concluded the diagnosis as 
gastrinoma with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Endoscopically, a 1cm tumor was 
found in the duodenum. In October 2022, the patient underwent an excision of the 
duodenal wall, and the pathology assessment confirmed our diagnosis of 
gastrinoma.
CONCLUSION: With this case report, we want to emphasize the importance of taking 
into account neuroendocrine tumors in our differential diagnostic 
considerations. At the same time, we want to highlight that, according to ESMO 
recommendations, we should preferentially use 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT for the 
diagnosis instead of scintigraphic examination (111In-Octreoscan).

DOI: 10.33699/PIS.2023.102.12.464-469
PMID: 38378461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]