1. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2023 Dec;50(13):1411-1413.

[Tolerability and Outcome of Neoadjuvant GS Therapy for Resectable Pancreatic 
Cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamashita M(1), Shimizu J, Sato Y, Noma T, Hagihara K, Yanagimoto Y, Suzuki Y, 
Ikenaga M, Kawase T, Imamura H, Akagi K, Iwasawa S, Tomita N.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Toyonaka Municipal Hospital.

INTRODUCTION: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine plus S-1(NAC GS)has been 
reported to prolong the prognosis of resectable pancreatic cancer, and is now 
being used in daily practice. In this study, we investigated the tolerability 
and outcome of neoadjuvant GS therapy for resectable pancreatic cancer in our 
hospital.
PATIENTS: Fifty-two patients who underwent NAC GS for resectable pancreatic 
cancer between November 2019 and March 2023 were included in this study.
RESULTS: The mean age of all 52 patients was 75 years, 28 were male and 24 were 
female. Tumor site was pancreatic head cancer in 32 patients, pancreatic body 
cancer in 13 patients, and pancreatic tail cancer in 8 patients. Only 2 patients 
of the 52 patients completed 2 cycles of GS therapy with full dose, and dose 
reduction and treatment deferral were performed in remaining 50 patients. The 
dose intensity was 78.4% for gemcitabine and 66.7% for S-1. Grade 3 or higher 
adverse events included neutropenia in 21 patients(40.4%), biliary tract 
infection in 6 patients(11.5%), fatigue, anorexia, hepatic dysfunction, and 
constipation in 1 patient each(1.9%). 47 patients(90.4%)underwent R0 resection. 
4 patients had pancreatic fistula, which was classified as Grade â…¢ by 
Clavien-Dindo, and one of them died in the hospital due to bleeding from a 
pseudoaneurysm.
CONCLUSION: NAC GS therapy for resectable pancreatic cancer was considered 
feasible with appropriate management of adverse events.

PMID: 38303291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]