1. Front Psychiatry. 2024 Jan 11;14:1266502. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2023.1266502. 
eCollection 2023.

Pancreatic cancer progression and mortality predicted by depression and anxiety: 
a systematic review and meta-analysis protocol.

Zhang R(#)(1)(2), Wang J(#)(1)(2), Zhang P(1), Zhang Z(1)(2), Miao R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Guang'anmen Hospital, China Academy of Chinese 
Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Graduate College, Beijing University of Chinese Medicine, Beijing, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Although the relationship between psychological factors and pancreatic cancer 
outcomes has been widely discussed, controversy remains. We will for the first 
time systematically summarize the literature to explore the correlation of 
anxiety and depression to the prognosis of patients with pancreatic cancer. The 
findings will fill existing research gaps, informing healthcare providers about 
better psychological care and medical treatment. The following databases will be 
retrieved from their inception to July 2023: Cochrane Library, MEDLINE (PubMed), 
Web of Science, EMBASE, and four Chinese databases (Chinese National Knowledge 
Infrastructure, Wanfang Database, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, and 
Chongqing VIP Chinese Science and Technology Periodical Database). The World 
Health Organization Clinical Trials Registry, Chinese Clinical Registry, and 
ClinicalTrials.gov will be searched to identify other related studies. A manual 
search will be performed to identify missing eligible studies based on the 
reference list of selected articles. The search will focus on studies published 
in Chinese or English. To assess the risk of bias in the selected articles, 
Newcastle-Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale (NOS) will be used for the cohort 
study. Funnel plots and Egger's test will be used to assess whether publication 
bias exists. Moreover, the Grading of Recommendations Assessment Development and 
Evaluation (GRADE) will be utilized to analyze the credibility of the results 
from selected articles. Two independent evaluators will implement the study 
selection and data extraction, as well as evaluate the risk of bias and evidence 
quality. Data will be analyzed using Stata 16.0. Trial registration: PROSPERO 
registration number is CRD42022366232.

Copyright Â© 2024 Zhang, Wang, Zhang, Zhang and Miao.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2023.1266502
PMCID: PMC10808776
PMID: 38274428

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.