1. Front Immunol. 2024 Jan 18;14:1332626. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1332626. 
eCollection 2023.

An E3 ubiquitin-proteasome gene signature for predicting prognosis in patients 
with pancreatic cancer.

Yin T(#)(1), Wen J(#)(2), Xu S(#)(3), Chen L(1), Zhang Z(1), Pan S(1), Zhou 
M(1), Guo X(#)(1), Wang M(#)(1), Gong J(#)(1), Zhang H(#)(1), Qin R(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Affiliated Tongji Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, 
China.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Affiliated Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Pancreatic cancer is the seventh leading cause of cancer death worldwide, which 
is demonstrated with remarkable resistance to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The 
identification of prognosis signature and novel prognostic markers will 
facilitate patient stratification and an individualized precision therapy 
strategy. In this study, TCGA-PAAD was used to screen prognostic E3 ubiquitin 
ligases and establish prognostic signatures, and GEO database was used to verify 
the accuracy of prognostic signatures. Functional analysis, in vitro experiments 
and clinical cohort studies were used to analyze the function and prognostic 
efficacy of the target gene. An E3 ligase-based signature of 9 genes and the 
nomogram were developed, and the signature was proved to accurately predict the 
prognosis of patients with pancreatic cancer. WDR37 might be the most prognostic 
E3 ubiquitin ligase in pancreatic cancer, and the clinical cohort analyses 
suggested a tumor-suppressive role. The results of functional analysis and in 
vitro experiments indicated that WDR37 may promote the degradation of TCP1 
complex to inhibit tumor and improve immune cell infiltration. The E3 
ligase-based signature accurately predicted the prognosis of patients with 
pancreatic cancer, so it can be used as a decision-making tool to guide the 
treatment of patients with pancreatic cancer. At the same time, WDR37, the main 
gene in E3PMP signature, can be used as the most prognostic E3 ubiquitin ligase 
in the treatment of pancreatic cancer.

Copyright Â© 2024 Yin, Wen, Xu, Chen, Zhang, Pan, Zhou, Guo, Wang, Gong, Zhang 
and Qin.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1332626
PMCID: PMC10830689
PMID: 38304253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.