1. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2024 Jan 25;14:1226547. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2023.1226547. eCollection 2023.

CHST12: a potential prognostic biomarker related to the immunotherapy response 
in pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

Liu K(1), Li L(1), Han G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University, 
Shenyang, Liaoning, China.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PAAD) is characterized by lower 
immunogenicity with a poor response rate to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) 
and exhibits the poorest prognosis of all solid tumors, which results in the 
highest tumor-related mortality among malignancies. However, the underlying 
mechanisms are poorly understood. In addition, diverse carbohydrate 
sulfotransferases (CHSTs), which are involved in the sulfation process of these 
structures, play an important role in the metastatic spread of tumor cells. 
Aberrant glycosylation is beginning to emerge as an influencing factor in tumor 
immunity and immunotherapy. Therefore, it might serve as a biomarker of the 
immunotherapeutic response in tumors. The purpose of the study was to evaluate 
the role of CHST12 in PAAD prognosis and its relevance to the immunotherapeutic 
response.
METHODS: A comprehensive investigation of the interactions between CHST12 
expression and the immune microenvironment as well as the clinical significance 
of CHST12 in PAAD was conducted. Data derived from the Cancer Genome Atlas 
(TCGA) database were analyzed using univariate and multivariate approaches, the 
Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER), and Tumor Immune Dysfunction and 
Exclusion (TIDE) algorithms. Publicly available datasets were analyzed in this 
study. These data can be found on websites such as http://www.xiantao.love and 
https://www.proteinatlas.org. An assessment of the predictive value of CHST12 
for PAAD prognosis was conducted using univariate and multivariate Cox 
regression analysis, Kaplan-Meier analysis, and nomograms. The TIMER algorithm 
calculates the proportions of six types of immune cells. The TIDE algorithm was 
used to indicate the characteristics of tumors that respond to ICI therapy.
RESULTS: The mRNA and protein levels of CHST12 showed the opposite trend. CHST12 
mRNA expression was significantly upregulated in PAAD. According to Cox 
regression analysis, CHST12 RNA expression acts as a protective factor for 
overall survival [hazard ratio (HR), 0.617, P < 0.04]. Functional annotation 
indicated that CHST12-associated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were 
related to the signaling activity of receptor tyrosine kinases and the 
regulation of ubiquitin-protein transferase. These are usually involved in tumor 
development and may be related to the treatment responses of immune checkpoint 
inhibitors (ICIs). There was significantly higher CHST12 mRNA expression in PAAD 
samples than in non-malignant samples.
CONCLUSIONS: In PAAD, elevated CHST12 mRNA expression might regulate immune cell 
infiltration into the tumor microenvironment (TME) and may predict clinical 
outcomes.

Copyright Â© 2024 Liu, Li and Han.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2023.1226547
PMCID: PMC10850383
PMID: 38333724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.