1. Genes Dis. 2023 Oct 14;11(6):101143. doi: 10.1016/j.gendis.2023.101143. 
eCollection 2024 Nov.

Comprehensive multi-omics profiling identifies novel molecular subtypes of 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

Wang X(1)(2)(3), Yang J(1)(2)(3), Ren B(1)(2)(3), Yang G(1)(2)(3), Liu 
X(1)(2)(3), Xiao R(1)(2)(3), Ren J(1)(2)(3), Zhou F(1)(2)(3), You L(1)(2)(3), 
Zhao Y(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking 
Union Medical College, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100023, 
China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Research in Pancreatic Tumor, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Beijing 100023, China.
(3)National Science and Technology Key Infrastructure on Translational Medicine 
in Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Beijing 100023, China.

Pancreatic cancer, a highly fatal malignancy, is predicted to rank as the second 
leading cause of cancer-related death in the next decade. This highlights the 
urgent need for new insights into personalized diagnosis and treatment. Although 
molecular subtypes of pancreatic cancer were well established in genomics and 
transcriptomics, few known molecular classifications are translated to guide 
clinical strategies and require a paradigm shift. Notably, chronically 
developing and continuously improving high-throughput technologies and systems 
serve as an important driving force to further portray the molecular landscape 
of pancreatic cancer in terms of epigenomics, proteomics, metabonomics, and 
metagenomics. Therefore, a more comprehensive understanding of molecular 
classifications at multiple levels using an integrated multi-omics approach 
holds great promise to exploit more potential therapeutic options. In this 
review, we recapitulated the molecular spectrum from different omics levels, 
discussed various subtypes on multi-omics means to move one step forward towards 
bench-to-beside translation of pancreatic cancer with clinical impact, and 
proposed some methodological and scientific challenges in store.

Â© 2023 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi 
Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gendis.2023.101143
PMCID: PMC11382047
PMID: 39253579