1. Endosc Ultrasound. 2024 Jan-Feb;13(1):28-34. doi:
10.1097/eus.0000000000000027.  Epub 2023 Nov 3.

Clinical utility of the forward-viewing echoendoscope in patients after 
pancreatoduodenectomy: A prospective study.

Ishiwatari H(1), Kaneko J(1)(2), Sato J(1), Satoh T(1)(3), Ishikawa K(1)(4), 
Niiya F(1), Matsubayashi H(1)(5), Minamide T(1), Maeda Y(1), Yamamoto Y(1), 
Kishida Y(1), Yoshida M(1), Ito S(1), Kawata N(1), Imai K(1), Hotta K(1), 
Imamura T(6), Sugiura T(6), Uesaka K(6), Ono H(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endoscopy, Shizuoka Cancer Center, Shizuoka, Japan.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Iwata City Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Shizuoka General Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Sapporo Medical University, Sapporo, Japan.
(5)Division of Genetic Medicine Promotion, Shizuoka Cancer Center, Shizuoka, 
Japan.
(6)Division of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Shizuoka Cancer Center, 
Shizuoka, Japan.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Endoscopic treatment of obstructive jaundice and 
pancreatitis due to hepaticojejunostomy (H-J), pancreatojejunostomy (P-J) 
strictures, and tumor recurrence after pancreatoduodenectomy (PD) is technically 
challenging. Treatment of P-J strictures results in poor outcomes. Although 
conventional EUS that has an oblique view is not suitable for such patients, 
forward-viewing EUS (FV-EUS) may become a useful option. This study aimed to 
evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of FV-EUS in patients who have undergone 
PD.
METHODS: Patients with PD who were scheduled to undergo diagnosis and treatment 
using FV-EUS for H-J or P-J lesions were enrolled in this single-center 
prospective study. After observation of the P-J and H-J using FV-EUS according 
to a predetermined protocol, treatment using FV-EUS was performed as needed.
RESULTS: A total of 30 patients were enrolled, and FV-EUS was used to observe 
P-J and H-J in 24 and 28 patients, respectively. The detection rates of P-J and 
H-J by endoscopy were 50% (12/24) and 96.4% (27/28), respectively, and by EUS 
were 70.8% (17/24) and 100% (28/28), respectively. Of these, P-J and H-J were 
found by endoscopy only after EUS observation in 3 and 1 patient, respectively. 
The success rates of endoscopic treatment using FV-EUS were 66.7% (2/3), 95.2% 
(20/21), and 25% (1/4) for benign P-J strictures, benign H-J strictures, and 
tumor recurrence, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic treatment using FV-EUS is feasible and effective for 
patients after PD. Moreover, FV-EUS increases the P-J lesion detection rate by 
adding EUS observation.

Copyright Â© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwers Health, Inc on 
behalf of Scholar Media Publishing.

DOI: 10.1097/eus.0000000000000027
PMCID: PMC11213614
PMID: 38947114

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no financial 
conflict of interest with regard to the content of this report.