1. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2023 Dec;50(13):1777-1779.

[A Case Report of SOX Therapy for an Elderly Patient with Hemorrhagic Primary 
Duodenal Carcinoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Kinoshita U(1), Kawase T, Yanagimoto Y, Odagiri K, Yamashita M, Takeyama H, 
Suzuki Y, Ikenaga M, Shimizu J, Imamura H, Tomita N, Dono K.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Toyonaka Municipal Hospital.

BACKGROUND: Although pancreatoduodenectomy is recommended as a radical surgery 
for duodenal carcinoma, it has been reported that pancreatoduodenectomy in 
elderly patients has a high risk of surgical complications.
CASE PRESENTATION: A man in his 80's was diagnosed with advanced duodenal 
carcinoma, presenting with anemia(Hb 5.4 g/dL). Computed tomography scanning 
showed wall thickening in the descending leg of the duodenum, pancreatic 
invasion was suspected, and clinical diagnosis was Stage â…¡B(cT4N0M0). Although 
radical surgery was possible, the patient refused surgery considering the risks 
of surgical complications. The gastroduodenal bypass surgery was performed to 
control bleeding, and the patient was treated with S-1 plus oxaliplatin(SOX; S-1 
100 mg/body, days 1-14; oxaliplatin 100 mg/m2, day 1 q21 days). After 6 courses 
of the SOX regimen, the wall thickening of duodenum disappeared, and SOX was 
switched to S-1 monotherapy (S-1 100 mg/body, days 1-28, q42 days)according to 
Grade 2 thrombocytopenia and decreased performance status. After 11 courses of 
S-1, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed that the tumor had disappeared, the 
biopsy of duodenum showed no evidence of malignancy, and chemotherapy was 
terminated. The patient has been followed up for 7 months without recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: SOX for elderly patient showed efficacy against hemorrhagic 
duodenal carcinoma.

PMID: 38303204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]