1. J Natl Cancer Cent. 2023 Oct 11;3(4):306-309. doi: 10.1016/j.jncc.2023.10.001.
 eCollection 2023 Dec.

Targeted drug delivery systems for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma: overcoming 
tumor microenvironment challenges with CAF-specific nanoparticles.

Su X(1)(2), Wang Z(1)(2), Duan S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Novel Targets and Drug Study for Neural Repair of Zhejiang 
Province, School of Medicine, Hangzhou City University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Hangzhou City University, Hangzhou, China.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) stands as a profoundly heterogeneous and 
aggressive malignancy, manifesting a discouragingly limited response to 
conventional therapeutic interventions. Within the intricate tapestry of the 
tumor microenvironment (TME), cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) emerge as 
pivotal constituents, wielding the capacity to propel the malignant attributes 
of neoplastic cells while bolstering their deftness in thwarting treatments. The 
rapid evolution of nanomedicinal technologies ushers in fresh avenues for 
therapeutic paradigms meticulously honed to target CAFs. Notably, a recent 
proposition by Yuan et al. introduces a PDAC treatment strategy metaphorically 
akin to "shooting fish in a barrel." By adeptly capitalizing on the spatial 
distribution of the CAF barricade encircling the tumor, this innovative approach 
orchestrates a metamorphosis of CAFs, transitioning them from impediments to 
drug delivery into reservoirs of therapeutic agents. The resultant outcome, an 
augmentation of chemotherapy and immunotherapy efficacy, attests to the 
transformative potential of this concept. The study not only bequeaths novel 
insights and methodologies to surmount barriers in drug delivery for tumor 
treatment but also holds promise in elevating the precision, efficacy, and 
safety of tailored therapeutic regimens. Within this discourse, we meticulously 
evaluate Yuan et al.'s research, scrutinizing its merits and limitations, and 
cast a forward-looking gaze upon the formulation, validation of efficacy, and 
clinical translation of nanomedicines targeting CAFs.

Â© 2023 Chinese National Cancer Center. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jncc.2023.10.001
PMCID: PMC11256602
PMID: 39036664

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interests.