1. Genes Dis. 2023 Dec 22;11(5):101203. doi: 10.1016/j.gendis.2023.101203. 
eCollection 2024 Sep.

Down-regulation of microRNA-23a promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma 
initiation and progression by up-regulation of FOXM1 expression.

Liang L(1), Cai T(2), Li X(1), An J(1), Yu S(1), Zhang Y(1), Guo F(1), Wei F(3), 
He J(3), Xie K(1)(3), Jiang T(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Pancreatic Cancer Research, South China University of Technology 
School of Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Sixth Affiliated Hospital and Nanhai 
People's Hospital, South China University of Technology School of Medicine, 
Foshan, Guangdong 528200, China.
(3)The Second Affiliated Hospital and Guangzhou First People's Hospital, South 
China University of Technology School of Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510006, 
China.

Transcriptional factor Forkhead box M1 (FOXM1) plays an important role in 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) development and progression. The 
molecular mechanisms underlying its dysregulation remain unclear. We identified 
and functionally validated the microRNAs (miRNAs) that critically regulate FOXM1 
expression in PDAC. The expression levels of miRNA-23a (miR-23a-3p and -5p) were 
altered in PDAC cell lines and their effects on FOXM1 signaling and cell 
proliferation and migration and tumorigenesis were examined in vitro and in vivo 
using mouse PDAC models. Compared with non-tumor pancreatic tissues, PDAC 
tissues and cell lines exhibited significantly reduced levels of miR-23a 
expression. Reduced miR-23a expression and concomitant increase in FOXM1 
expression were also observed in acinar-to-ductal metaplasia and pancreatic 
intraepithelial neoplasia, the major premalignant lesions of PDAC. Transgenic 
expression of miR-23a reduced the expression of FOXM1 and suppressed cell 
proliferation and migration in PDAC cells, whereas the inhibitors of miR-23a did 
the opposite. Loss or reduced levels of miR-23a increased the levels of FOXM1 
expression, while increased expression of FOXM1 down-regulated miR-23a 
expression, suggesting that miR-23a and FOXM1 were mutual negative regulators of 
their expression in PDAC cells. Therefore, the miR-23a/FOXM1 signaling axis is 
important in PDAC initiation and progression and could serve as an 
interventional or therapeutic target for patients with early or late stages of 
PDAC.

Â© 2023 The Authors. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi 
Communications Co., Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gendis.2023.101203
PMCID: PMC11252794
PMID: 39022126

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.