1. Indian J Surg Oncol. 2024 May;15(Suppl 2):269-274. doi: 
10.1007/s13193-023-01859-w. Epub 2023 Dec 30.

Role of Endoscopic Ultrasound in the Management of Pancreatic Cancer.

Musunuri B(1), Shetty S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Kasturba Medical College, 
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal, Karnataka India.

Pancreatic cancer is one of the common causes of cancer-associated mortality 
with a dismal overall prognosis which has remained virtually unchanged over 
decades. In the present era, the management of patients with pancreatic cancer 
involves a multi-disciplinary team of radiologists, gastroenterologists, 
surgical oncologists, medical oncologists, radiation oncologists and other 
specialists. The advancement of interventional endoscopy has made a significant 
impact in the management of pancreatic cancers. Since the inception of 
endoscopic ultrasound, it has evolved over the last few decades in the 
management of pancreatic malignancies and its role in staging and tissue 
acquisition is well established. There is an emerging role of endoscopic 
ultrasound in the treatment and palliation of unresectable pancreatic cancer. 
The aim of this article is to review the role of endoscopic ultrasound in 
diagnostic and therapeutic interventions in the current era.

Â© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Indian Association of Surgical 
Oncology 2023. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) 
holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the 
author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted 
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such 
publishing agreement and applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s13193-023-01859-w
PMCID: PMC11133287
PMID: 38818002

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of InterestThe authors declare no 
competing interests.