1. Cancer J. 2024 Nov-Dec 01;30(6):407-420. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000752.

A Review of Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy in the Management of Gastrointestinal 
Malignancies.

Hollis E(1), Nganga DW(1), Yanagihara TK.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Radiation Oncology, University of North Carolina.

In this review, we explore the role of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) and 
other advanced radiotherapy techniques in the treatment of gastrointestinal 
malignancies, which primarily involves primary and secondary liver cancers and 
pancreatic cancers. The review examines radiotherapy in both curative and 
palliative settings, emphasizing the evolution of SBRT and hypofractionation as 
alternatives to conventional radiotherapy. We review the recent literature 
evaluating radiotherapy in the management of unresectable, borderline 
resectable, and metastatic pancreatic cancer, highlighting recent advances in 
radiotherapy techniques that aim to improve local control, reduce toxicity, and 
increase resectability in appropriate patients. For primary liver cancers 
(hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma), SBRT has emerged as a 
potential noninvasive alternative to surgery, particularly in patients with 
unresectable tumors or those awaiting liver transplantation. The review also 
provides insights into ongoing clinical trials, comparative studies between SBRT 
and other local therapies such as radiofrequency ablation, and the use of 
radiotherapy in managing liver metastases from various primary cancers. 
Throughout, we emphasize limitations in the available literature and highlight 
areas of ongoing and future investigation.

Copyright Â© 2024 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0000000000000752
PMID: 39589473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest and Source of Funding: The 
authors have disclosed that they have no significant relationships with, or 
financial interest in, any commercial companies pertaining to this article.