1. Cancer Lett. 2024 Nov 22:217350. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2024.217350. Online
ahead  of print.

Frontiers in pancreatic cancer on biomarkers, microenvironment, and 
immunotherapy.

Yu B(1), Shao S(2), Ma W(3).

Author information:
(1)Taimei Baofa Cancer Hospital, Dongping, Shandong, 271500, China; Jinan Baofa 
Cancer Hospital, Jinan, Shandong, 250000, China; Beijing Baofa Cancer Hospital, 
Beijing, 100010, China; Immune Oncology Systems, Inc, San Diego, CA, 92102, USA. 
Electronic address: bfyuchina@126.com.
(2)Clinical Research Center, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical 
University, Zhanjiang, Guangdong, 524000, China. Electronic address: 
sswhit@163.com.
(3)Department of Medicine, Sanford Stem Cell Institute, and Moores Cancer 
Center, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic 
address: wma@health.ucsd.edu.

Pancreatic cancer remains one of the most challenging malignancies to treat due 
to its late-stage diagnosis, aggressive progression, and high resistance to 
existing therapies. This review examines the latest advancements in early 
detection, and therapeutic strategies, with a focus on emerging biomarkers, 
tumor microenvironment (TME) modulation, and the integration of artificial 
intelligence (AI) in data analysis. We highlight promising biomarkers, including 
microRNAs (miRNAs) and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA), that offer enhanced 
sensitivity and specificity for early-stage diagnosis when combined with 
multi-omics panels. A detailed analysis of the TME reveals how components such 
as cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), immune cells, and the extracellular 
matrix (ECM) contribute to therapy resistance by creating immunosuppressive 
barriers. We also discuss therapeutic interventions that target these TME 
components, aiming to improve drug delivery and overcome immune evasion. 
Furthermore, AI-driven analyses are explored for their potential to interpret 
complex multi-omics data, enabling personalized treatment strategies and 
real-time monitoring of treatment response. We conclude by identifying key areas 
for future research, including the clinical validation of biomarkers, regulatory 
frameworks for AI applications, and equitable access to innovative therapies. 
This comprehensive approach underscores the need for integrated, personalized 
strategies to improve outcomes in pancreatic cancer.

Copyright Â© 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2024.217350
PMID: 39581219

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.