1. Epigenomes. 2024 Nov 3;8(4):41. doi: 10.3390/epigenomes8040041.

Epigenetic Landscape of DNA Methylation in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma.

Liu P(1), Jacques J(1), Hwang CI(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, College of Biological 
Sciences, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA 95616, USA.
(2)University of California Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of 
California, Davis, Sacramento, CA 95817, USA.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains one of the most lethal 
malignancies, characterized by its aggressive progression and dismal prognosis. 
Advances in epigenetic profiling, specifically DNA methylation analysis, have 
significantly deepened our understanding of PDAC pathogenesis. This review 
synthesizes findings from recent genome-wide DNA methylation studies, which have 
delineated a complex DNA methylation landscape differentiating between normal 
and cancerous pancreatic tissues, as well as across various stages and molecular 
subtypes of PDAC. These studies identified specific differentially methylated 
regions (DMRs) that not only enhance our grasp of the epigenetic drivers of PDAC 
but also offer potential biomarkers for early diagnosis and prognosis, enabling 
the customization of therapeutic approaches. The review further explores how DNA 
methylation profiling could facilitate the development of subtype-tailored 
therapies, potentially improving treatment outcomes based on precise molecular 
characterizations. Overall, leveraging DNA methylation alterations as functional 
biomarkers holds promise for advancing our understanding of disease progression 
and refining PDAC management strategies, which could lead to improved patient 
outcomes and a deeper comprehension of the disease's underlying biological 
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.3390/epigenomes8040041
PMCID: PMC11587027
PMID: 39584964

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.