1. Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2024 Nov 1;17(11):1470. doi: 10.3390/ph17111470.

GLP-1 Receptor Agonists: A Promising Therapy for Modern Lifestyle Diseases with 
Unforeseen Challenges.

Kupnicka P(1), Król M(1), Żychowska J(1), Łagowski R(1), Prajwos E(1), Surówka 
A(2), Chlubek D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Medical Chemistry, Pomeranian Medical 
University in Szczecin, Powstańców Wlkp. 72, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland.
(2)Department of Plastic, Endocrine and General Surgery, Pomeranian Medical 
University, 72-010 Szczecin, Poland.

Modern lifestyle diseases remain a persistent challenge in healthcare. 
Currently, about 422 million people worldwide are affected by diabetes, while 1 
in 8 people are living with obesity. The development of glucagon-like peptide 1 
receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) has marked a significant milestone in treating 
these conditions. Interest in GLP-1RAs has grown due to evidence that, beyond 
their established role in diabetes management, these drugs influence other 
metabolic disorders. This is attributed to the fact that GLP-1 receptors are 
found in various healthy human tissues. However, a potential cause for concern 
is the expression of GLP-1 receptors in certain cancers. This review focuses on 
the most recent findings concerning the actions of GLP-1RAs, detailing their 
documented impact on the thyroid gland and pancreas. It addresses concerns about 
the long-term use of GLP-1RAs in relation to the development of pancreatitis, 
pancreatic cancer, and thyroid neoplasms by exploring the mechanisms and 
long-term effects in different patient subgroups and including data not 
discussed previously. This review was conducted through an examination of the 
literature available in the MedLine (PubMed) database, covering publications 
from 1978 to 10 May 2024. The collected articles were selected based on their 
relevance to studies of GLP-1 agonists and their effects on the pancreas and 
thyroid and assessed to meet the established inclusion criteria. The revised 
papers suggest that prolonged use of GLP-1RA could contribute to the formation 
of thyroid tumors and may increase the risk of acute inflammatory conditions 
such as pancreatitis, particularly in high-risk patients. Therefore, physicians 
should advise patients on the need for more frequent and detailed follow-ups.

DOI: 10.3390/ph17111470
PMCID: PMC11597758
PMID: 39598383

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.