1. Cancers (Basel). 2024 Nov 12;16(22):3809. doi: 10.3390/cancers16223809.

Diagnostic Utility of MicroRNAs in Pancreatic Cancers.

Jelski W(1), Mroczko J(1), Okrasinska S(2), Mroczko B(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Diagnostics, Medical University, 15-276 Bialystok, 
Poland.
(2)Department of Biochemical Diagnostics, University Hospital, 15-268 Bialystok, 
Poland.
(3)Department of Neurodegeneration Diagnostics, Medical University, 15-268 
Bialystok, Poland.

Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a serious malignant tumor with a high mortality rate, 
mainly due to late diagnosis and a lack of effective therapeutic interventions. 
The possibility of recognizing this cancer with reliable biomarkers using 
minimally invasive methods is of great importance for improving early detection, 
prognostic assessment, and targeted treatment methods. In recent years, small 
non-coding RNAs, especially microRNAs, have emerged as promising candidates for 
biomarkers of pancreatic cancer. Despite the methodological and analytical 
limitations of microRNA determination and a lack of available automated and 
standardized tests, a prospective systematic assessment of this new parameter's 
use in the detection of pancreatic cancer is warranted. This review provides 
general information on the diagnostic and prognostic utility of microRNAs, which 
appear to be well-established in many studies. In summary, microRNAs are 
promising non-invasive biomarkers of pancreatic cancer, offering potential 
opportunities for early detection, prognosis, and treatment monitoring. As 
research in this field progresses, microRNAs should become valuable tools in the 
fight against pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers16223809
PMCID: PMC11593317
PMID: 39594763

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.