1. Biomolecules. 2024 Oct 28;14(11):1374. doi: 10.3390/biom14111374.

Serum from Hypertensive Patients Induces Cancer-Supporting Phenotype of Vascular 
Endothelium In Vitro.

Uruski P(1), Mikuła-Pietrasik J(2), Tykarski A(1), Książek K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hypertensiology, Angiology and Internal Medicine, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Długa 1/2 Str., 61-848 Poznan, Poland.
(2)Department of Pathophysiology of Ageing and Civilization Diseases, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Święcickiego 4 Str., 60-781 Poznan, Poland.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Large-scale epidemiological studies have established a 
bidirectional association between hypertension and cancer. However, the 
underlying mechanisms explaining this connection remain unclear. In our study, 
we investigated whether serum from patients with hypertension (HT) could enhance 
the aggressiveness of cancer cells in vitro through alterations in endothelial 
cell phenotype.
METHODS: Experiments were performed using EAhy926 endothelial cells and ovarian 
(SKOV-3), colorectal (SW480), pancreatic (PSN-1), breast (MCF-7), and lung 
(A549) cancer cell lines.
RESULTS: This study showed that conditioned medium (CM) produced by EAhy926 
cells, when exposed to serum from patients with untreated hypertension (HT-CM), 
promotes the proliferation, migration, and invasion of every cancer cell line 
tested. In addition, endothelial cells subjected to HT serum promote the 
adhesion of all cancer cell types except PSN-1. An intensified transendothelial 
invasion of cancer cells was accompanied by decreased expression of junctional 
proteins (connexin 43, E-cadherin, occluding, desmoglein) in HT serum-treated 
endothelial cells. Quantitative analysis of the secretome of endothelial cells 
subjected to HT serum showed that they secrete increased amounts of CCL2, CXCL1, 
CXCL8, bFGF, HGF, IL-6, PAI-1, and TGF-β1. Moreover, cancer cells exposed to 
HT-CM display increased mRNA expression for several pro-cancerogenic agents, 
including CXCL8, tPA, and VEGF.
CONCLUSIONS: Our report shows that hypertension may potentiate cancer cell 
aggressiveness by modulating endothelial cell phenotype. Further tests with 
antihypertensive drugs are required to assess whether effective treatment of 
hypertension can mitigate its cancer-promoting potential.

DOI: 10.3390/biom14111374
PMCID: PMC11592052
PMID: 39595551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision 
to publish the results.