1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Nov 21:2024.11.20.624566. doi: 
10.1101/2024.11.20.624566.

Targeting eIF4G1-dependent translation in melanoma.

Feng Y, Radaeva M, Amiri M, Deshpande AJ, Olson S, Jovanovic P, Pass I, Deng Q, 
Lazar I, Murad R, Molinolo A, Kim H, Sergienko E, Villaneuva J, Topisirovic I, 
Jackson M, Sonenberg N, Cherkasov A, Ronai ZA.

Elevated expression of components of eIF4F translation initiation complex has 
been documented in cancer, resulting in enhanced translation of mRNAs encoding 
pro-tumorigenic factors, including oncogenic proteins. We previously identified 
SBI-756, a small molecule that interferes with the eIF4F assembly and overcomes 
melanoma resistance to BRAF inhibitors. SBI-756 enhanced anti-tumor immunity in 
pancreatic cancer and was effective in the treatment of diffuse large B cell 
lymphoma. Here, we identified the eIF4G1 MA3 (4G1-MA3) domain as the target of 
SBI-756, attenuating eIF4F complex assembly. Melanoma cells expressing a mutant 
form of 4G1-MA3 exhibited polysome profiles resembling those of melanoma cells 
treated with SBI-756. A structure-based in silico screen against the eIF4G1 MA3 
domain identified M19, a small molecule inhibitor that exhibited anti-melanoma 
effects. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) revealed upregulation of UPR, mTOR, p53, and 
ROS signaling in M19-treated melanoma cells. Ribosome sequencing identified 
changes in ribosomal structure and electron transport chain components following 
M19-6 treatment of melanoma cells. Autophagy and histone deacetylase inhibitors 
were found to enhance anti-neoplastic activities of M19 or its analog, M19-6. 
M19-6 conferred a greater effect on melanoma than melanocytes and overcame 
melanoma resistance to BRAF or MEK inhibitors. Alone, M19-6 reduced melanoma 
growth and metastasis in a xenograft model. M19-6 offers a new therapeutic 
modality to overcome resistance and metastasis.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.11.20.624566
PMCID: PMC11601521
PMID: 39605602