1. Front Immunol. 2024 Nov 7;15:1462221. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1462221. 
eCollection 2024.

Invention and characterization of a systemically administered, attenuated and 
killed bacteria-based multiple immune receptor agonist for anti-tumor 
immunotherapy.

Newman MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Indaptus Therapeutics, Inc., New York, NY, United States.

Activation of immune receptors, such as Toll-like (TLR), NOD-like (NLR) and 
Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) is critical for efficient innate and 
adaptive immunity. Gram-negative bacteria (G-NB) contain multiple TLR, NOD and 
STING agonists. Potential utility of G-NB for cancer immunotherapy is supported 
by observations of tumor regression in the setting of infection and Coley's 
Toxins. Coley reported that intravenous (i.v.) administration was likely most 
effective but produced uncontrollable toxicity. The discovery of TLRs and their 
agonists, particularly the potent TLR4 agonist lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS)-endotoxin, comprising ~75% of the outer membrane of G-NB, suggests that 
LPS may be both a critical active ingredient and responsible for dose-limiting 
i.v. toxicity of G-NB. This communication reports the production of killed, 
stabilized, intact bacteria products from non-pathogenic G-NB with ~96% 
reduction of LPS-endotoxin activity. One resulting product candidate, Decoy10, 
was resistant to standard methods of cell disruption and contained TLR2,4,8,9, 
NOD2 and STING agonist activity. Decoy10 also exhibited reduced i.v. toxicity in 
mice and rabbits, and a largely uncompromised ability to induce cytokine and 
chemokine secretion by human immune cells in vitro, all relative to unprocessed, 
parental bacterial cells. Decoy10 and a closely related product, Decoy20, 
produced single agent anti-tumor activity or combination-mediated durable 
regression of established subcutaneous, metastatic or orthotopic colorectal, 
hepatocellular (HCC), pancreatic, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) tumors in 
mice, with induction of both innate and adaptive immunological memory (syngeneic 
and human tumor xenograft models). Decoy bacteria combination-mediated 
regressions were observed with a low-dose, oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drug (NSAID), anti-PD-1 checkpoint therapy, low-dose cyclophosphamide (LDC), 
and/or a targeted antibody (rituximab). Efficient tumor eradication was 
associated with plasma expression of 15-23 cytokines and chemokines, broad 
induction of cytokine, chemokine, innate and adaptive immune pathway genes in 
tumors, cold to hot tumor inflammation signature transition, and required NK, 
CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, collectively demonstrating a role for both innate and 
adaptive immune activation in the anti-tumor immune response.

Copyright Â© 2024 Newman.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1462221
PMCID: PMC11599860
PMID: 39606250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MN is an employee, director and stockholder of 
Indaptus Therapeutics, Inc.