1. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Nov 13;25(22):12159. doi: 10.3390/ijms252212159.

Select Endocrine Disorders and Exosomes in Early PDAC Diagnosis.

Wlodarczyk B(1), Durko L(1), Walczak K(2), Talar-Wojnarowska R(1), 
Malecka-Wojciesko E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Digestive Tract Diseases, Medical University of Lodz, 90-153 
Lodz, Poland.
(2)Department of Internal Diseases and Nephrodiabetology, Medical University of 
Lodz, 90-549 Lodz, Poland.

Disturbances in carbohydrate metabolism are suggested to be the early symptoms 
of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). The accumulated data suggests that 
endocrine function-related biomarkers may represent a breakthrough in the early 
detection of PDAC. Factors which may predispose one to the development of PDAC 
are insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia. Elevated insulin levels induce the 
onset of carcinogenesis by altering the differentiation and function of islet 
cells through stimulating growth factors, including insulin-like growth factors 
(IGFs). Impaired Î² cell function, along with the impact of PDAC-released factors 
(e.g., adrenomedullin (ADM), IGF-1, and macrophage inhibitory factor (MIF) on 
pancreatic islets, may contribute to the induction of diabetes associated with 
PDAC. Recently, exosomes have attracted worldwide attention due to their role in 
varied features of cell function, particularly in cancer progression. Exosomes 
comprise of small extracellular vesicles produced by almost all cells. These 
vesicles contain a vast array of biomolecules, including proteins and microRNAs. 
Exosomes participate in cancer growth and promote angiogenesis. They promote 
tumorigenesis and metastasis, and are associated with the acquisition of cancer 
cells resistant to chemotherapy. Data have been accumulating recently on the 
role of exosomes in the rapid recognition, prognosis and potential therapy of 
pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252212159
PMCID: PMC11594802
PMID: 39596226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.