1. World J Surg Oncol. 2024 Nov 27;22(1):315. doi: 10.1186/s12957-024-03597-x.

Drainage posterior to pancreaticojejunostomy reduces the severity of 
postoperative pancreatic fistula after pancreaticoduodenectomy.

Zhou Y(#)(1), Lu F(#)(1), Lin X(1), Yang Y(1), Wang C(1), Fang H(1), Lin R(2), 
Huang H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 
Fuzhou, Fujian, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 
Fuzhou, Fujian, People's Republic of China. linronggui@fjmu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 
Fuzhou, Fujian, People's Republic of China. heguanghuang123@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Clinically relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF) is a 
common postoperative complication after pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) and is 
associated with severe complications. Drainage is an effective method to treat 
POPF and prevent POPF-related complications. However, controversy still exists 
about whether different drainage methods reduce the incidence or the severity of 
POPF after PD.
METHODS: A closed suction drainage was placed posterior to 
pancreaticojejunostomy in PD except for other routine drainage placements. A 
retrospective study was conducted to calculate the incidence and severity of 
CR-POPF and POPF-related complications and to evaluate the efficacy of this 
drainage method.
RESULTS: 295 patients who underwent PD were enrolled in this study, 130 patients 
in the trial group and 165 patients in the control group. The two groups were 
comparable in both preoperative and intraoperative characteristics. The overall 
incidence of CR-POPF was similar between the two groups. The trial group had a 
significantly decreased incidence of grade C POPF (0% vs. 3.6%, p < 0.05), 
post-pancreatectomy hemorrhage (PPH) (0% vs. 6.1%, p = 0.003), reoperation (0% 
vs. 3.6%, p = 0.036), intra-abdominal infection (13.1% vs. 25.5%, p = 0.008), 
and delayed gastric emptying (DGE) (2.3% vs. 8.5%, p = 0.024) than the control 
group. Subgroup analysis of patients with intermediate/high risk for CR-POPF 
mirrored these results. Logistic regression identified obstructive jaundice, 
biliary fistula, POPF, and DGE as independent risk factors for PPH and 
reoperation, though the results were not significant in multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The drainage posterior to pancreaticojejunostomy reduces the 
severity of POPF and the incidence of POPF-related complications after PD.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12957-024-03597-x
PMID: 39605037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: This study was conducted in accordance with established ethical 
principles, including the World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki, and 
with the approval of the Ethics Committee of Fujian Medical University Union 
Hospital. Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.