1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Nov 17:2024.11.15.623825. doi: 
10.1101/2024.11.15.623825.

Identification of the MRTFA/SRF pathway as a critical regulator of quiescence in 
cancer.

Panesso-GÃ³mez S, Cole AJ, Wield A, Anyaeche VI, Shah J, Jiang Q, Ebai T, Sharrow 
AC, Tseng G, Yoon E, Brown DD, Clark AM, Larsen SD, Eder I, Gau D, Roy P, Dahl 
KN, Tran L, Jiang H, McAuliffe PF, Lee AV, Buckanovich RJ.

Chemoresistance is a major driver of cancer deaths. One understudied mechanism 
of chemoresistance is quiescence. We used single cell culture to identify, 
retrieve, and RNA-Seq profile primary quiescent ovarian cancer cells (qOvCa). We 
found that many qOvCa differentially expressed genes are transcriptional targets 
of the Myocardin Related Transcription Factor/Serum Response Factor (MRTF/SRF) 
pathway. We also found that genetic disruption of MRTF-SRF interaction, or an 
MRTF/SRF inhibitor (CCG257081) impact qOvCa gene expression and induce a 
quiescent state in cancer cells. Suggesting a broad role for this pathway in 
quiescence, CCG257081 treatment induced quiescence in breast, lung, colon, 
pancreatic and ovarian cancer cells. Furthermore, CCG081 (i) maintained a 
quiescent state in patient derived breast cancer organoids and, (ii) induced 
tumor growth arrest in ovarian cancer xenografts. Together, these data suggest 
that MRTF/SRF pathway is a critical regulator of quiescence in cancer and a 
possible therapeutic target.
SIGNIFICANCE: Quiescence is a critical driver of chemoresistance. The MRFT-SRF 
pathway regulates cancer cell quiescence and inhibiting the MRTF-SRF pathway can 
prevent the outgrowth of quiescent cancer cells and improve cancer outcomes.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.11.15.623825
PMCID: PMC11601311
PMID: 39605642