1. Diagnostics (Basel). 2024 Nov 9;14(22):2512. doi: 10.3390/diagnostics14222512.

An Atypical Case of Pancreatic Cancer with Mesenchymal Differentiation in a 
Patient with Primary Lung Adenocarcinoma: Insights into Tumor Biology and Novel 
Therapeutic Pathways.

Abbas N(1), Zahreddine L(1), Tawil A(2), Natout M(3), Shamseddine A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Naef K. Basile Cancer Institute, American 
University of Beirut Medical Center, Riad El Solh, Beirut 1107-2020, Lebanon.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, American University of 
Beirut Medical Center, Riad El Solh, Beirut 1107-2020, Lebanon.
(3)Department of Radiology, American University of Beirut Medical Center, Riad 
El Solh, Beirut 1107-2020, Lebanon.

Background: Pancreatic cancer is among the malignancies with the poorest 
prognosis, largely due to its aggressive nature and resistance to conventional 
therapies. Case Summary: This report describes the case of a 69-year-old male 
patient with stage IV primary lung adenocarcinoma presenting with high levels of 
programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1). Simultaneously, abdominal computed tomography 
(CT) showed a dilated pancreatic duct at the level of the pancreatic head and a 
hypodense lesion in the uncinate process involving the superior mesenteric 
artery. Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) of the pancreatic lesions was negative. 
After three cycles of chemoimmunotherapy, positron emission tomography-computed 
tomography (PET-CT) showed complete remission of the lung nodules, 
lymphadenopathy, and pleural thickening, as well as a decrease in the size of 
the pancreatic lesion. After another six months, a PET-CT scan showed a focal 
increased uptake in the pancreatic mass in the same location, indicating disease 
progression. A core biopsy of the pancreatic tumor showed atypical spindle cell 
morphology with positive staining for vimentin, characteristic of mesenchymal 
differentiation with no apparent epithelial features. Comprehensive molecular 
profiling through Caris Molecular IntelligenceÂ® revealed four genes with 
actionable mutations in the pancreatic tissue, including KRAS (p.G12D) and TP53 
(p.R175H). These molecular findings suggested the diagnoses of sarcomatoid 
carcinoma and conventional pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Primary mesenchymal tumors and neuroendocrine 
neoplasms were excluded because immunohistochemistry was negative for anaplastic 
lymphoma kinase (ALK), smooth muscle actin (SMA), desmin, CD34, signal 
transducer and activator of transcription 6 (STAT6), S100, HMB45, CD117, 
discovered on GIST-1 (DOG1), CD56, progesterone, and synaptophysin. However, 
despite multiple rounds of systemic chemotherapy, immunotherapy, and radiation, 
his pancreatic disease rapidly deteriorated and metastasized to the liver and 
bone. Conclusions: Despite multiple lines of treatment, the patient's condition 
worsened and he succumbed to his pancreatic malignancy. This study highlights 
the clinical characteristics, diagnosis, and treatment of rare pancreatic 
cancer, emphasizing the importance of molecular testing and histopathological 
biomarkers in personalizing treatment. It also provides insights into promising 
therapeutic approaches for similar cases with an unusual presentation.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics14222512
PMID: 39594178