1. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2024 Nov 23;204:106969. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106969.
Online  ahead of print.

In vitro and in silico study of the synergistic anticancer effect of 
alpinumisoflavone with gemcitabine on pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma through 
suppression of ribonucleotide reductase subunit-M1.

Lee W(1), Song G(2), Bae H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, 
Korea University, Seoul 02841, South Korea.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, 
Korea University, Seoul 02841, South Korea. Electronic address: 
ghsong@korea.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Oriental Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences, Kyung Hee 
University, Yongin 17104, South Korea. Electronic address: bhc7@khu.ac.kr.

A highly aggressive neoplastic disease, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) 
is documented as the third chief cause of cancer-associated mortality in both 
sexes combined in the United States. For decades, gemcitabine-based chemotherapy 
has been embraced as a cornerstone drug for the treatment of PDAC. However, 
there have been several unsolved problems, including cytotoxicity, and 
chemoresistance. Gemcitabine efficacy was attributed to the attenuation of 
ribonucleotide reductase subunit-M1 (RRM1). Overexpression of RRM1 in PDAC is 
highly correlated with gemcitabine resistance and reduced gemcitabine 
sensitivity, resulting in a poor survival rate even after gemcitabine treatment. 
Moreover, the status of TP53, a tumor suppressor gene, assumes a decisive role 
in the response of PDAC to gemcitabine. Therefore, targeting RRM1 and P53 might 
be a therapeutic strategy for strengthening gemcitabine efficacy and 
cytotoxicity against PDAC. Alpinumisoflavone (AIF) is a prenylated isoflavone 
originated in Cudrania tricuspidate with versatile bioactive properties, 
including anticancer activity. However, there was no report whether AIF can 
exert anticancer effect and exhibit synergistic effect with gemcitabine against 
PDAC. Therefore, the anticancer properties of AIF were assessed with PANC-1 and 
MIA PaCa-2. In addition, synergism between AIF and gemcitabine were analyzed. 
Moreover, the contribution of P53 and RRM1 expression to gemcitabine resistance 
was assessed by comparing their protein levels in PDAC cells and normal 
pancreatic cells. The interactions of AIF with RRM1 protein were confirmed by 
molecular docking and dynamics simulation. Therefore, AIF enhances gemcitabine 
efficacy against PDAC through the regulation of P53 and RRM1.

Copyright Â© 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2024.106969
PMID: 39577749

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None of the 
contributing authors have any conflicts of interest to disclose.