1. Mol Med. 2024 Nov 26;30(1):231. doi: 10.1186/s10020-024-00996-4.

Leveraging CAR macrophages targeting c-Met for precision immunotherapy in 
pancreatic cancer: insights from single-cell multi-omics.

Hu L(1), Wang X(1), Song Z(1), Chen F(1), Wu B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing University, 
No. 1518 North Huancheng Road, Jiaxing, Zhejiang, 314000, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Department of Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing University, 
No. 1518 North Huancheng Road, Jiaxing, Zhejiang, 314000, People's Republic of 
China. gdwkwb@zjxu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer is known for its poor prognosis and resistance to 
conventional therapies, largely due to the presence of cancer stem cells (CSCs) 
and aggressive angiogenesis. Effectively targeting these CSCs and associated 
angiogenic pathways is crucial for effective treatment. This study leverages 
single-cell multi-omics to explore a novel therapeutic approach involving 
Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) macrophages engineered to target the c-Met 
protein on pancreatic CSCs.
METHODS: We employed single-cell RNA sequencing to analyze pancreatic cancer 
tissue, identifying c-Met as a key marker of CSCs. CAR macrophages were 
engineered using a lentiviral system to express a c-Met-specific receptor. The 
phagocytic efficiency of these CAR macrophages against pancreatic CSCs was 
assessed in vitro, along with their ability to inhibit angiogenesis. The in vivo 
efficacy of CAR macrophages was evaluated in a mouse model of pancreatic cancer.
RESULTS: CAR macrophages demonstrated high specificity for c-Met + CSCs, 
significantly enhancing phagocytosis and reducing the secretion of angiogenic 
factors such as VEGFA, FGF2, and ANGPT. In vivo, these macrophages significantly 
suppressed tumor growth and angiogenesis, prolonging survival in pancreatic 
cancer-bearing mice.
CONCLUSION: CAR macrophages targeting c-Met represent a promising therapeutic 
strategy for pancreatic cancer, offering targeted elimination of CSCs and 
disruption of tumor angiogenesis. This study highlights the potential of 
single-cell multi-omics in guiding the development of precision immunotherapies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s10020-024-00996-4
PMCID: PMC11590533
PMID: 39592929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical statement: All animal 
experiments reported in this study were approved by the Animal Ethics Committee 
of Jiaxing University Medical Center (Approval No. JUMC2024-087). Consent for 
publication: Not Applicable. Consent for publication: The authors declare that 
this manuscript is original, has not been published before, and is not currently 
being considered for publication elsewhere. All authors have approved the 
manuscript and agree with its submission to Molecular Medicine. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests. Conflict of interest: The 
author declares no conflict of interest.