1. Cancers (Basel). 2024 Nov 14;16(22):3825. doi: 10.3390/cancers16223825.

An Overview for Clinicians on Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasms (IPMNs) 
of the Pancreas.

Moris D(1), Liapis I(2), Gupta P(1), Ziogas IA(3), Karachaliou GS(4), 
Dimitrokallis N(5), Nguyen B(1), Radkani P(1).

Author information:
(1)MedStar Georgetown Transplant Institute, Washington, DC 20007, USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 
35294, USA.
(3)Department of Surgery, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO 
80045, USA.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.
(5)1st Department of Surgery & Organ Transplant Unit, Evangelismos General 
Hospital, 10676 Athens, Greece.

Currently, there is no reliable method of discerning between low-risk and 
high-risk intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMNs). Operative resection 
is utilized in an effort to resect those lesions with high-grade dysplasia (HGD) 
prior to the development of invasive disease. The current guidelines recommend 
resection for IPMN that involve the main pancreatic duct. Resecting lesions with 
HGD before their progression to invasive disease and the avoidance of resection 
in those patients with low-grade dysplasia is the optimal clinical scenario. 
Therefore, the importance of developing preoperative models able to discern HGD 
in IPMN patients cannot be overstated. Low-risk patients should be managed with 
nonsurgical treatment options (typically MRI surveillance), while high-risk 
patients would undergo resection, hopefully prior to the formation of invasive 
disease. Current research is evolving in multiple directions. First, there is an 
ongoing effort to identify reliable markers for predicting malignant 
transformation of IPMN, mainly focusing on genomic and transcriptomic data from 
blood, tissue, and cystic fluid. Also, multimodal models of combining biomarkers 
with clinical and radiographic data seem promising for providing robust and 
accurate answers of risk levels for IPMN patients.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers16223825
PMCID: PMC11593033
PMID: 39594780

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.