1. Pharmacol Rep. 2024 Nov 28. doi: 10.1007/s43440-024-00683-5. Online ahead of 
print.

Practical application of melatonin for pancreas disorders: protective roles 
against inflammation, malignancy, and dysfunctions.

Sheibani M(1)(2), Hosseinzadeh A(1), Fatemi I(3), Naeini AJ(1), Mehrzadi S(4).

Author information:
(1)Razi Drug Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Iran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Research Center of Tropical and Infectious Diseases, Kerman University of 
Medical Sciences, Kerman, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(4)Razi Drug Research Center, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
Sa_mehrzadi@yahoo.com.

Melatonin, a hormone primarily produced by the pineal gland, exhibits a range of 
physiological functions that extend beyond its well-known role in regulating 
circadian rhythms. This hormone influences energy metabolism, modulates insulin 
sensitivity, and plays a significant role in controlling sleep patterns and food 
intake. Notably, melatonin is also synthesized in various peripheral organs, 
including the gastrointestinal system and pancreas, suggesting its function as a 
local hormone. The presence of melatonin receptors in the pancreas underscores 
its relevance in pancreatic physiology. Pancreatic disorders, such as diabetes 
mellitus (DM), pancreatitis, and pancreatic cancer, often stem from inflammatory 
processes. The majority of these conditions are characterized by dysregulated 
immune responses and oxidative stress. Melatonin's anti-inflammatory properties 
are mediated through the inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the 
activation of antioxidant enzymes, which help to mitigate cellular damage. 
Furthermore, melatonin has demonstrated pro-apoptotic effects on cancer cells, 
promoting cell death in malignant tissues while preserving healthy cells. Thus, 
melatonin emerges as a multifaceted agent with significant therapeutic potential 
for pancreatic disorders. Its ability to reduce inflammation and oxidative 
stress positions it as a promising adjunct therapy for conditions such as 
diabetes mellitus, pancreatitis, and pancreatic cancer. By modulating immune 
responses and enhancing cellular resilience through antioxidant mechanisms, 
melatonin not only addresses the symptoms but also targets the underlying 
pathophysiological processes associated with these disorders. This review aims 
to categorize and summarize the impacts of melatonin on pancreatic functions and 
disorders, emphasizing its potential as a therapeutic agent for managing 
pancreatic dysfunctions. Future research should focus on elucidating the precise 
mechanisms by which melatonin exerts its protective effects on pancreatic 
tissues and exploring optimal dosing strategies for clinical applications. The 
integration of melatonin into treatment regimens may enhance existing therapies 
and offer new hope for individuals suffering from pancreatic dysfunctions.

Â© 2024. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Maj Institute of Pharmacology 
Polish Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1007/s43440-024-00683-5
PMID: 39604705

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.