1. Commun Biol. 2024 Nov 27;7(1):1581. doi: 10.1038/s42003-024-07268-1.

Mechanical forces inducing oxaliplatin resistance in pancreatic cancer can be 
targeted by autophagy inhibition.

Kalli M(1), Mpekris F(2), Charalambous A(2), Michael C(2), Stylianou C(2), 
Voutouri C(2), Hadjigeorgiou AG(2), Papoui A(2), Martin JD(3), Stylianopoulos 
T(4).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Biophysics Laboratory, Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing 
Engineering, University of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus. mkalli02@ucy.ac.cy.
(2)Cancer Biophysics Laboratory, Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing 
Engineering, University of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(3)Materia Therapeutics, Las Vegas, NV, USA.
(4)Cancer Biophysics Laboratory, Department of Mechanical and Manufacturing 
Engineering, University of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus. tstylian@ucy.ac.cy.

Pancreatic cancer remains one of the most lethal malignancies, with limited 
treatment options and poor prognosis. A common characteristic among pancreatic 
cancer patients is the biomechanically altered tumor microenvironment (TME), 
which among others is responsible for the elevated mechanical stresses in the 
tumor interior. Although significant research has elucidated the effect of 
mechanical stress on cancer cell proliferation and migration, it has not yet 
been investigated how it could affect cancer cell drug sensitivity. Here, we 
demonstrated that mechanical stress triggers autophagy activation, correlated 
with increased resistance to oxaliplatin treatment in pancreatic cancer cells. 
Our results demonstrate that inhibition of autophagy using hydroxychloroquine 
(HCQ) enhanced the oxaliplatin-induced apoptotic cell death in pancreatic cancer 
cells exposed to mechanical stress. The combined treatment of HCQ with losartan, 
a known modulator of mechanical abnormalities in tumors, synergistically 
enhanced the therapeutic efficacy of oxaliplatin in murine pancreatic tumor 
models. Furthermore, our study revealed that the use of HCQ enhanced the 
efficacy of losartan to alleviate mechanical stress levels and restore blood 
vessel integrity beyond its role in autophagy modulation. These findings 
underscore the potential of co-targeting mechanical stresses and autophagy as a 
promising therapeutic strategy to overcome drug resistance and increase 
chemotherapy efficacy.

Â© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-024-07268-1
PMID: 39604540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.