1. Medicina (Kaunas). 2024 Oct 28;60(11):1766. doi: 10.3390/medicina60111766.

Pictorial Review of Rare Pancreatic Tumors and Tumor-like Lesions: 
Radiologic-Pathologic Correlation.

Hong JH(1), Kim JW(1), Yoon EJ(1), Song SG(1), Kim HC(1), Hur YH(2), Kim HJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Chosun University Hospital, Chosun University 
College of Medicine, Gwangju 61453, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreas Surgery, Chonnam National University 
Hwasun Hospital, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju 61469, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Medical Science Research Institute, Kyung Hee University Hospital, Seoul 
02447, Republic of Korea.

Rare pancreatic tumors and non-neoplastic tumor-like lesions present a 
diagnostic challenge due to their uncommon occurrence and overlapping imaging 
characteristics with more prevalent pancreatic neoplasms. Advances in imaging 
technologies and diagnostic criteria have contributed to increased detection of 
these rare entities in clinical practice. This pictorial review focuses on the 
radiologic-pathologic correlation of rare pancreatic tumors, including colloid 
carcinoma, acinar cell carcinoma, pancreatoblastoma, primary pancreatic 
lymphoma, and non-neoplastic tumor-like lesions such as hamartomas and 
inflammatory pseudotumors. Detailed imaging features, such as signal intensities 
on MRI and enhancement patterns on CT, are correlated with pathological findings 
to assist in the differential diagnosis. Familiarity with these characteristics 
is crucial for radiologists to ensure accurate diagnosis and guide appropriate 
treatment strategies, as management and prognosis significantly differ from 
common pancreatic neoplasms.

DOI: 10.3390/medicina60111766
PMCID: PMC11596154
PMID: 39596951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.