1. J Inflamm Res. 2024 Nov 19;17:9041-9058. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S480345. eCollection
 2024.

Mesenchymal Stem Extracellular Vesicles in Various Respiratory Diseases: A New 
Opportunity.

Hu Z(#)(1), Zhu L(#)(2), Zhu Y(3), Xu Y(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Shaoxing University, Shaoxing, Zhejiang, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Infectious Disease, Affiliated Jinhua Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Jinhua, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary Pancreatic Gastrointestinal Surgery 2, Affiliated 
Jinhua Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Jinhua, Zhejiang, People's 
Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Lung diseases are associated with high morbidity and mortality rates, thereby 
jeopardizing human health and imposing a great burden on society. Currently, 
lung diseases are mainly treated with medications, oxygen therapy and mechanical 
ventilation, but these approaches are unable to effectively reduce the mortality 
rate. Therefore, lung transplantation remains the ultimate treatment for various 
chronic lung diseases, but this treatment is also hindered by the limited 
availability of lung sources, immature technology and a low survival rate after 
transplantation. With constant changes in the environment, pathogens, type and 
amount of harmful substances and the prevalence of respiratory diseases, there 
is an urgent need to identify alternative treatment methods. Research on stem 
cell therapy has been very successful in recent years, and mesenchymal stem 
cells (MSCs), together with their secretory bodies, play a significant 
therapeutic role. Extracellular vesicles of MSCs (MSC-EVs) are also major 
components of the paracrine secretion of MSCs, including exosomes, 
microvesicles, and apoptotic bodies, among which exosomes are the most typical. 
MSC-EVs are believed to be present in various tissues of the human body where 
they can carry proteins, DNA, RNA and biologically active factors, just to name 
a few. They can also transmit various biological signals to participate in 
different biological activities, including the maintenance of homeostasis within 
the tissue. Several studies have further demonstrated that MSCs and their 
generated extracellular vesicles play an important role in the treatment of 
diseases. In this paper, the origin, properties and roles of MSCs and MSC-EVs 
are reviewed, the mechanisms of different lung diseases, the limitations of 
current therapeutic options and the roles of MSC-EVs in Chronic Obstructive 
Pulmonary Disease, asthma, infectious lung disease, lung cancer, pulmonary 
fibrosis, pulmonary arterial hypertension, and acute lung injury/ acute 
respiratory distress syndrome are also discussed (Figure 1). In addition, the 
current limitations and possible future research directions are also discussed 
in view of providing new ideas for the role of MSC-EVs in the treatment of lung 
diseases.

Â© 2024 Hu et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S480345
PMCID: PMC11586120
PMID: 39583853

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest in 
this work.