1. World J Gastrointest Endosc. 2024 Nov 16;16(11):587-594. doi: 
10.4253/wjge.v16.i11.587.

Treatment of choice for malignant gastric outlet obstruction: More than clearing 
the road.

Jiang L(1), Chen XP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430030, Hubei 
Province, China.
(2)Hepatic Surgery Center, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430000, Hubei Province, China. 
chenxpchenxp@163.com.

In this editorial, we comment on the in-press article in the World Journal of 
Gastrointestinal Endoscopy concerning the treatment of malignant gastric outlet 
obstruction (mGOO). The original theory of treatment involves bypassing the 
obstruction or reenabling the patency of the passage. Conventional surgical 
gastroenterostomy provides long-term relief of symptoms in selected patients, 
with substantial morbidity and a considerable rate of delayed gastric emptying. 
Endoscopic stenting was introduced as an alternative minimally invasive 
procedure with less procedural morbidity and rapid clinical improvement; 
however, it presented a high rate of long-term recurrence. Therefore, challenges 
remain in the treatment of mGOO patients to improve clinical outcomes. 
Endoscopic ultrasound-guided gastroenterostomy has recently emerged as a 
promising method because of the combined effects of surgery and endoscopy, 
whereas stomach-partitioning gastrojejunostomy has been reported as a modified 
surgical procedure to reduce the rate of delayed gastric emptying. In 
decision-making regarding the treatment of choice, it should be taken into 
account that mGOO might be accompanied by a variety of pathological conditions, 
including cancer cachexia, anorexia, malabsorption, and etc., all of which can 
also lead to the characteristic symptoms and poor nutritional status of mGOO. 
The treatment plan should consider comprehensive aspects of patients to achieve 
practical improvements in prognosis and the quality of life.

Â©The Author(s) 2024. Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.4253/wjge.v16.i11.587
PMCID: PMC11586723
PMID: 39600555

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors have 
no conflicts of interest to declare.