1. Small. 2024 Nov 24:e2406837. doi: 10.1002/smll.202406837. Online ahead of
print.

Harnessing the Engineered Probiotic-Nanosystem to Remodulate Tumor Extracellular 
Matrix and Regulate Tumor-Colonizing Bacteria for Improving Pancreatic Cancer 
Chemo-Immunotherapy.

Yao WQ(1), Song WF(1), Deng XC(1), Lin YT(1), Meng R(1), Wang JW(1), Chen 
WH(1)(2), Zhang XZ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Biomedical Polymers of Ministry of Education & Department 
of Chemistry, Wuhan, University, Wuhan, 430072, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430071, 
P. R. China.

Poor chemotherapy efficacy in pancreatic cancer is attributed to limited drug 
permeation caused by the dense extracellular matrix (ECM) and drug degradation 
induced by tumor-colonizing bacteria. Here, a tumor-targeting 
probiotic-nanosystem is elaborately designed to remodulate ECM and selectively 
regulate tumor-colonizing bacteria for improving chemo-immunotherapy against 
pancreatic cancer. Specifically, drug-loaded liposomes are conjugated with 
Clostridium Butyricum (CB) via matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2)-responsive 
peptide to construct a probiotic-nanosystem. Particularly, vactosertib (VAC, a 
transforming growth factor-β1 receptor inhibitor) is delivered by 
probiotic-nanosystem to silence the active pancreatic stellate cells (PSCs) for 
inhibiting the development of ECM, resulting in a loosened ECM and providing a 
golden opportunity for the deep penetration of chemotherapy drugs and immune 
cells. Subsequently, gemcitabine (GEM) is efficiently delivered into the core of 
tumors via probiotic-nanosystem, achieving an enhanced chemotherapy efficacy. 
Noteworthily, CB can alleviate γ-proteobacteria-mediated GEM degradation through 
competitively reducing the contents of γ-proteobacteria and promoting the 
amounts of tumor-inhibiting bacteria, thereby significantly potentiating the 
therapeutic effect of GEM. The engineered probiotic-nanosystem can not only 
enhance the GEM-induced immunogenic cell death (ICD) of a pancreatic tumor to 
activate antitumor immune responses but also markedly increase the 
tumor-infiltration of effector immune cells to heighten tumoricidal immunity, 
offering a promising strategy for chemo-immunotherapy of pancreatic cancer.

© 2024 Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.202406837
PMID: 39580679